Sibusiso Mthalane, who is well-known as DJ Kayfonic, is a nationally acclaimed, independent artiste. His latest hit “iJordan” featuring Khanyo has been doing well countrywide and in this exclusive interview, DJ Kayfonic shared a cuppa coffee with the Newcastle Express as we got to know the man behind the music. NE: Who is DJ Kayfonic? DJK: My name is Sibusiso Mthalane, born and raised in Dannhauser KZN. I am just a humble, cool guy who loves to socialise. I am also a radio DJ. NE: When did you first realise that you had a passion for music? DJK: My passion for music began in high school. I used to beatbox a lot during break time and sing for my classmates. NE: Growing up, who were the artistes that inspired you the most? DJK: DJ Cleo, Revolution, Oskido, Sunny L, Prince KB and Master KG. NE: After you matriculated, what did you study and where? DJK: I studied at the Creative Arts College in Durban where I studied music production, sound engineering and radio broadcasting. NE: Tell us about your first big break into the world of music. DJK: I actually made my big break into the industry last year after releasing this song. The airplay has been amazing. I feel so blessed to be able to have such success. I am grateful. NE: You have recently released a single called ‘iJordan’ featuring Khanyo which is doing extremely well across the country, where did the inspiration for this song come from? DJK: The song speaks about crossing the Jordan River after being baptised. The song is one that I respect a lot because it was not me who wrote the song but it came directly from the heavens. While I was playing around with some beats, I heard the voices singing exactly like that. That is when I said let me do what God wants me to do on the song and I did exactly that. So the song is from above. I give God the credit on this song. NE: Where to from here? DJK: I am moving forward; no turning back. I will let God lead my journey. I believe in Him. NE: If you could collaborate with any artiste on the planet, who would it be and why? DJK: Simmi, Sky Wonder and Mpumi. Their music resonates with the listeners, also motivates them and heals them. NE: Indian or Chinese food? DJK: Indian food. I love biryani! NE: Lambo or private jet? DJK: Lambo definitely NE: Tell us something about yourself that nobody else knows. DJK: I am so very shy but nobody knows that. NE: What message do you have for the youth? DJK: Follow your dreams, go to school and associate yourself with good people.