Lacking infrastructure and poor service delivery is a common sight around Tongaat and Verulam, however, those living in the Flamingo Heights informal settlement can rest a little easy as they will no longer have to use a sewage pipe to cross over a river on their daily commute.  For years many residents living in the Khalambazo informal settlement had to walk over a sewage pipe to get to taxi ranks, schools or their places of work. Phindile Ngumbi, who lives in the informal settlement, said it is sad that the community had no choice but to cross the bridge using a sewage pipe. “It’s very dangerous. It is nothing more than a concrete pipe that the elderly and children have to walk over. Rainy days are a nightmare. People can easily slip and fall in at any time. If a child slips into the river they can break something or even die. This community needs a proper bridge. Without one, we run the risk of falling into the river.” One of the residents said, not long ago, an old lady fell into the river while trying to balance and carrying her groceries. “It’s really not fair, just because this is a poor community doesn’t mean we should be put on the back foot. It’s about time the municipality took our safety into consideration,” said Ngumbi. Another resident, Nolundi Makatisa, has been crossing over the pipeline for 11 years and said every time she crosses, it’s with the fear of falling always on her mind. “This pipe is not safe for the community to cross over. When it rains the water can sometimes flow as high as the pipeline itself. Something needs to be done about this. The risk of someone falling to their death is very high.” Makatisa said the bridge could not have come any sooner, “With the third wave of infections more people will be getting infected. This means they will have to go to the clinics. Sick people should not have to cross over the pipeline. I’m glad something is finally being done about this.” Ward councillor, Dolly Munien, said the community was in desperate need for a bridge as it was unsafe for the community to walk over a concrete pipe everyday. “It is long overdue and now after the long struggle at Transcamp and Flamingo Heights flats, construction is finally underway.” Munien said the construction needed to happen so that the children and the rest of the community can safely have access through the shortcut to go to school and work. “Though it was a long-awaited struggle, the community is now happy their daily commute will be a little safer. I am especially happy to see that children using the bridge can now travel to school safely,” she added. The eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, confirmed that they are currently in the process of constructing a small bridge for the Flamingo Heights community. “We have just finished erecting the abutments and the steel deck will follow soon. We envision that the bridge should be complete and ready for use by the end of the month. However, this is subject to dry weather conditions,” he said.