KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala said that KwaZulu-Natal’s Covid-19 infection rates are still fluctuating and do not show that we have peaked yet; there are, nevertheless, worrying signs of what appears to be a sustained increase in the infection rate. Zikalala also raised concern about the impending winter school break due to the fact that KZNs second wave happened during the holiday season. The premier was briefing the media on Sunday, on the latest developments on Covid-19. He said that over the past two weeks KZN has been recording more than 500 new cases daily, with only a few exceptions, where the number would be around 400, and is below the threshold since 16 June. Zikalala said that KwaZulu-Natal continues to rank as the second-highest in terms of the number of laboratory-confirmed cases countrywide, contributing 19% or 346 329 of the cases and ranking as the fourth highest in deaths countrywide, following Eastern Cape, Gauteng and Western Cape. “There are many signs that Covid – 19 is still around, and deadly as ever. KwaZulu-Natal has been extremely fortunate that our numbers are still where they are. The fact that our numbers are relatively low should, under no circumstances, mean that we must be complacent,“ said Zikalala. Zikalala reported that five Districts, which are EThekwini, UMgungundlovu, UThukela, Amajuba and UMzinyathi, continuously received the highest number of cases on a daily basis. Only Harry Gwala District observed a remarkable decline in number of new cases in the past week, at – 64%. He said that the number of hospital isolations continues to fluctuate, with a slight increase in daily admissions, including ICU and patients requiring ventilation. “We welcome all the visitors who will be enjoying themselves at our beaches and other areas. We urge everyone to understand that we should not compromise on compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Everyone should actually become much more vigilant than before in curbing the spread of the virus.” Zikalala warned that no events should violate the level 3 lock down regulations as defaulters will face the full might of the law. Zikalala explained that the Province is prepared for any resurgence of cases in terms of bed availability and oxygen capacity. He urged citizens to go to the nearest health facility if they have been in contact with a confirmed case, if they have flu-like symptoms or if they generally feel unwell. Of the 589 new cases recorded on 19 June, eThekwini District recorded 37% followed by UThukela (14%), UMgungundlovu (12%) and Amajuba (6%) . Zikalala explained that the vaccination of senior citizens aged 60 and above, as well as healthcare workers is proceeding ahead. As of 18 June 362 226 senior citizens were vaccinated ; as well as 127 501 health workers. The number of vaccination sites prepared for the Pfizer vaccine is 359; whereas for educators, who will be receiving the Johnson and Johnson vaccine from 23 June to 08 July – 91 vaccination sites have been prepared. The Province is now vaccinating an average 13 000 people per day. A resident, Kashry Perumal said that there is a concern that the upcoming winter holidays will raise the Covid-19 infection rates, like it happened in the second wave. “Being on holiday does not mean that we should let down our guard because the virus is not on a holiday. I urge locals and holiday makers to please be extra vigilant and remember to follow Covid-19 protocols especially during this time. This is to protect themselves and others, ” she said.