Seaview residents are up in arms as fiber optic installations continue to wreak havoc in Seaglen Gardens. Many residents have been subjected to hours of power outages and water disruptions since the project began, just over a month ago. Christine Naidoo, 61, a retired educator, has taken the initiative to facilitate communications between the contractors and the eThekwini Municipality that are working in the suburb. “Since the actual digging began, we have been plagued with issues upon issues regarding burst water pipes and power cables being damaged. Some of us have been left without electricity for more than 24 hours at a time. Other residents have had water disruptions that took hours to resolve,” said Naidoo. According to Naidoo, she has spoken to the supervisors overseeing the project, several times, regarding the damages caused to water pipes and electrical cables. “A week ago the workers digging the trench outside my verge cut an electrical cable which then led to smoke arising from the gaping hole.” Naidoo said that while the contractors were attempting to resolve the electrical issue they then hit a stormwater pipe which subsequently led to water overflowing onto the road. A resident who wished to remain anonymous said he was beyond furious with the inconveniences caused by the workers. “We have been given the run-around from one supervisor to another. Passing the buck will not be tolerated any longer. Residents are now demanding that the contractors take responsibility for their shoddy work.” A 70-year-old resident who spoke to The Southern Star, on the basis of remaining anonymous, has expressed her frustration with the current situation. “I am a pensioner that has lived in Seaglen Gardens for over 20 years and I have never had this many problems in this area before. The problems only started when the digging began. We understand that they need to do a job but they also need to understand that we cannot afford to take money out of our own pockets to fix what they have callously damaged. I had to replace my kitchen taps three times already due to the pressure build-up after switching the mains off and on. My geyser will eventually need to be replaced because it is now leaking. As a pensioner, I must now take my own money and fix what they have broken.” Naidoo went on to say that, “We live in a beautiful little community that now looks like a construction site on every street corner. I take pride in my verge and to see the devastating state it is in currently is very disappointing. My verge has won two competitions. One for the municipality “Adopt a Verge” and the other was for the Botanical Gardens Best Verge competition. It saddens me to think that I take such pride in my verge and then to have the workers come here and disrespect it is not acceptable.” While many residents have been left disgruntled by the ongoing issues, another resident said that although her family was left without electricity for two days, the contractors working on her road took responsibility for the inconvenience caused and proceeded to repair the damaged cables. “The contractor called in his own electrician to fix the problems at no cost to me so that they could restore our power. Eventhough the fibre contractors have done so much damage in our area, they did take responsibility for their poor workmanship and the inconveniences they caused for my neighbours and I.” The Southern Star spoke with Ward 65 Councilor, Samantha Windvogel, who said that the agreement was made between the eThekwini Municipality and the contractors. “It is a tough situation that we are placed in. Unfortunately, we are not involved in the selection process of which company is awarded the contracts to begin fibre optic installations in the area. No proper systems were put in place prior to the commencement of this project.” Windvogel added, “Had the community been invited to a sit- down meeting with the municipality and the contractors, residents could have been informed of the possible issues that could occur for the duration of the project. Seaglen Garden residents have had endless issues with Contractors not taking responsibility for damages they have caused. contractors need to be held accountable for their workmanship.” Windvogel went on to say that she is fully aware of the matters at hand and her ward is doing everything they can to assist residents.