Two unknown men went on a shooting spree during an attempted murder in Cardham Drive, Brookdale on Saturday night at 9.30pm, causing terror in the community and wounding two people. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Josh Premjith, a cousin of the first victim, 35, and a spokesperson for the family, said they had just concluded a family get-together in Cardham Road. “My cousin and his family who were visiting were getting ready to leave and were at the gate by their vehicle when two men opened fire at them with what is believed to be 9mm pistols. One suspect was dressed in black pants, black shirt and was wearing a blue beanie. The other was short and was wearing a red jacket. Both suspects were wearing surgical masks.” Premjith said the couple ran into the lounge but soon realised that the elderly mother and the 8-year-old child were still outside. “My cousin ran out of the kitchen door to bring the elderly mother and child inside. One suspect shot at him twice. The other suspect attempted to break into the house by firing shots through the door, but the women barricaded themselves and managed to fend the suspect off. The first suspect followed the victim to the back of the house still firing shots. The neighbours who heard the commotion switched the lights on, attempting to come outside, at which point both suspects ran away,” he claimed. Premjith added that his cousin sustained two gunshots wounds on the left abdomen and right forearm. He was taken to hospital where he is in a stable condition and awaiting surgery. “He had lost a lot of blood. I found my cousin on the wall. He is a brave man who protected his family.” He said the child is traumatised and will be taken for counselling. KZN VIP Armed Response and medical team attended the scene. It is further alleged that when the suspects left the house, they shot a second man walking down the road. Eyewitnesses claim that the men were walking, waving the guns and shooting randomly. The community are alleging that the two shooting incidents are possibly linked to other house break-ins in the area. Captain Louise Naidoo, spokesperson for Phoenix SAPS, confirmed that a case of attempted murder is under investigation. “The suspects took the house keys from the vehicle which were later found on the road. Three cartridges were found on the scene with one projectile.” Captain Naidoo further confirmed the second armed robbery, “An SAPS member found a male, 38, laying on the side of the road in a prone position wearing a yellow jacket and black jeans covered in blood, the male was in pain, he informed police that he resides in Brookdale. He further informed police that he was walking along Cardham Drive when he was approached by two unknown males. One of the said males produced a firearm and began to fire several shots towards him. He sustained one gunshot wound on the right buttocks. He fell onto the ground and the two suspects proceeded to rob him of his cellphone and wallet and they fled. Three spent cartridges were on the scene and one projectile. The victim was conveyed to hospital.” Captain Naidoo added that the detective service centre was informed to activate the informers and the Trio Crime members were tasked to track the suspects. Phoenix Community Police Forum chairperson, Umesh Singh, said, “We urge residents to be cautious and stay off the streets if possible especially during the dark winter nights. Criminals lurk and wait to pounce on unsuspecting victims. Respect the lockdown curfew and ensure that you are safely ensconced in your home with your family during these dangerous times. It is distressing that two men sustained gunshot wounds due to the criminal behaviour of the two robbers. Residents are implored to beef up security and ensure that the elderly and children are safe from harm’s way when gunshots ring out. It is better to be safe than sorry.”