From 13 June, Wentworth residents are invited to partake in a voluntary survey sharing their thoughts, experiences and hesitancy regarding the Covid-19 vaccines. “The objective is to obtain the participantsí views of the impact of Covid-19 on them, their families and the Wentworth community, and their attitudes towards the vaccine to develop a community-based strategy to deal with the pandemic in various parts of the country,” said head researcher, Dr Gregory Houston. As part of the ‘Vax-Scenes’ survey conducted  by The Human Sciences Research Council, Sarraounia Public Health Trust and the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC), the researchers aim to assess the impact that a community-based response to the pandemic can assist with in efficient vaccine rollout. “Wentworth is one among four wards selected because of its relative small area-size making ease of research in addition to  the large number of active community groups and high incidence of Covid-19 deaths during the second wave. Sweetwaters in KwaZulu-Natal, Athlone in the Western Cape and Alexandra Township in Gauteng are among the other selected wards for this survey.” The Vax-Scenes, ward-based case study team said they would be working closely with councillors, religious and community leaders as well as businesses in finding participants for the survey whether they be at home, gatherings, events or with family. The team said, “We will have a few central venues and events that the community will be invited to, such as Youth Day of 16 June, where volunteers can approach us.” Collected data from the survey will be used in national plans, as Dr Houston explains, “From findings, responses that are applicable to areas that are similar to Wentworth can aid national vaccine progress. The Wentworth community can, and is, making a major contribution in this regard.” To register as volunteer participant in the paramount survey, contact Dr Houston on 073-962-2638 or via Whatsapp stating your full name, age, location and arrangements to meet for the survey from 13 June.