The community of Stanmore, Phoenix have raised their concerns following the cold-blooded killing of a 30-year-old man whose body was found at the Stanmore Park, opposite a tavern, last Tuesday morning. It is alleged that the deceased was drinking with two of his friends at the nearby tavern on the night when he was murdered. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo said the victim was found with four stab wounds on his back and chest. “No weapon was found at the scene, however, a view of surroundings at the park indicates a struggle took place. A murder investigation is underway,” said Captain Naidoo.  Concerned residents said the area was infested with prostitution, drug dealing, and robberies due to the non-operational streetlights. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Diveshan Singh, a local resident, said, “Many children attend the nearby school and have to walk through the park to get to school. That particular morning, as children were on their way to school, they had to endure the sight of the murdered vagrant, leaving them traumatised. We have had continuous problems for many years at this park. Drug dealers roam freely selling to school children as well as other addicts. The park is always littered with used condoms and needles from the drug users.” The 45-year-old resident further stated that, “We have tried on many occasions to get assistance from authorities to rid the park of these dangerous criminals but to no avail because there are still stabbings and robberies each day. What will it take to get their attention before a child loses their life,” questioned Singh. Another pensioner, Martha Naicker, said, “I have been living near the park for over 34 years and I’ve seen its state deteriorate and go from bad to worse. The children of the community can no longer play or roam freely in the park because it is so unsafe; there are robberies and stabbings that occur regularly. At night, besides all the homeless people that sleep there, drug dealers are also up and about selling drugs. I wish that the municipality and SAPS along with security companies would intervene and make the park a safe area for families to use again,” added Naicker. Another resident, Allister Pillay, expressed his concern over the non-operational streetlights in the area. “The lack of street-lighting in the area is the main reason that robberies occur so frequently. It is even more dangerous now during winter as many unsuspecting residents are being pounced on and getting robbed off their cellphones, wallets, jewellery and other personal belongings as they make their way home through the dark streets. Drivers park their cars in the dark to solicit the prostitutes or buy drugs. This murder is an indication that we should take the plight of the residents seriously, today it is a homeless person, tomorrow it might be an innocent community member. These issues need to be treated with urgency.” Ward Councillor Lyndal Singh stated that, “It was really sad to hear about the murder of a homeless man at the Stanmore Park. I am aware of the residents’ concerns and I aim to resolve as many of them as quickly as possible. All the overgrown bushes are in the process of being cleaned up so that the bushes cannot be used as a hideout for criminals and prostitutes. I’ve also reported the non-operational streetlights to the municipality and although they are backlogged, it will be seen to as soon as possible. “I wish that the Phoenix SAPS could show more visibility in the area which would provide some sort of safety for the children that walk through the park to school and the residents as well. Police visibility is a deterrent of crime. Government needs to provide the resources to ensure sufficient police visibility within our communities,” added Cllr Singh.