EZakheni Psolice and community members of  Kwamteyi Mhlumayo are baffled about a brutal double murder after the bodies of two men were discovered, just a few metres from the local clinic.  The victims were discovered along the main road in the early hours of Saturday, 29 May. Both men had sustained multiple gunshot wounds and during the attack they were bludgeoned with huge rocks.  Police said one of the victims tried to escape, but was killed outside the vehicle, while another was found inside the vehicle. The vehicle was riddled with bullets.  Wallets, cellphones and bank cards belonging to different people were found scattered outside the vehicle. It is reported that the vehicle belongs to a resident in Newcastle, but had not been reported stolen or hi-jacked.  Further investigation by the police found that the owner of the vehicle could not be located and Newcastle Police have been contacted to assist with the investigation. Councilor Bhehkowakhe Majola told The Ladysmith Herald that around 4am on Saturday, he heard gunshots and contacted members of the eZakheni Police, who said they would investigate. “It is difficult to say when gunshots are reported if someone is killed or not, because everyday we hear gunshots going off in the area.” Members of the community gathered along the crime scene, as eZakheni Police worked to gather evidence. “There are so many stories that are going around at the moment and we are still not sure what had happened and why these men were killed. We have seen so many senseless killings in our area in the last few weeks.” Cllr Majola said other people in the vehicle managed to escape the killers. He said one of the victims had been pistol whipped. “Police are currently asking her for statements and how they came to the area. We will have to assist the police and allow them to conduct their investigation, so I’m pleading with the community if they have seen or noticed anything to please come forward.”  Apparently a wallet with a SAPS emblem was also found in the vehicle with many cards inside and it appears as if the victims were also robbed as their pockets were turned inside out. The deceased have not yet been identified and police are investigating the murder.  The motive of the killing is unknown at this stage and no arrests have been made.