There have been mixed reactions from the community to the Department of Basic Education (DBE) Minister, Angie Motshekga’s, announcement that schools will remain open. On Saturday, Motshekga declared that 582 000 educators and support staff will be vaccinated from 23 June to 8 July, a day before schools close to mark the end of the second school term. She said vaccination is voluntary but “highly recommended”. Whilst highlighting the learning losses suffered since March 2020 as a result of Covid-19, she said the majority of schools remain “fairly stable”. “We believe that schools must remain open and in saying so we are not insensitive to the concerns raised about the rising infections,” said Motshekga. Motshekga said consultation was held with key stakeholders such as the teacher unions, national associations responsible for governance in public schools, learners with special education needs, and principals. However, some parents, school governing bodies (SGB), and learners expressed concern about schools remaining open amidst the surge in Covid-19 infections and the third wave. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Silverani Sher Muhammad, a parent, disagreed with Motshekga. “Do parents want to sacrifice their children’s lives? It is highly unlikely that the third wave will just go away, we can see it getting worse and spreading. We as parents should consider the safety of our kids.” A learner in Grade 5, who wished to remain anonymous, said she was afraid to attend school but she starts exams next Tuesday. “I am not comfortable to go to school but if I do not attend school I will fail the exams. That’s what the school said will happen to the children who do not attend school,” said the learner. Some SGBs also disagreed with Motshekga. SGB Chairperson of Spes Nova School, P. Haripersad, said the safety of staff and learners takes priority, however, the vaccination of educators and support staff is a matter of personal choice and the SGB will not impinge on their rights.   “Of concern to me, however, is whether the vaccine will have any adverse effects on our staff taking cognisance of the significant number of people who have had serious side-effects after being vaccinated. This begs the question why a significant number of frontline healthcare personnel such as doctors and nurses have not yet responded to the call to be vaccinated. As the scientists have not given citizens an assurance that vaccination will prevent infection 100%, it is my personal view that during the third wave, which is anticipated to be more severe than the last two waves, large gatherings such as those within a school environment should be avoided,” said Haripersad. Haripersad said he supports extending the July vacation for learners in grades R to 11 until September on the understanding that after the cold season, the virus will not thrive. “An exception should, however, be made for those learners in matric so as to ensure they are not disadvantaged for their end-of-year examinations,” concluded Haripersad. Kevin Singh, SGB chairperson of Daleview Secondary School asked how will it help the educators when learners are not vaccinated?  “The DBE decision contradicts the level 3 regulations regarding gatherings of maximum 50 indoors and 100 outdoors. Some schools have approximately 1000 learners. The virus is also attacking learners and they are at risk. The learners attending school on a tiered level is working well now and it should remain so, as it is controlled. When the school re-opens it will be uncontrollable. The number of learners in school should remain low. Also, there is an uncertainty around the vaccine. How promising is the vaccine that was created within a year?” Meanwhile, Vee Gani, chairperson of of KwaZulu-Natal (PAKZN) welcomed the announcement to keep schools open. “There are some who do not wish to be vaccinated but for those who wish to be vaccinated it is welcomed. Educators are at the forefront and are at risk. It is up to the schools and education department to monitor schools and if Covid-19 is widespread the department will be forced to close schools, on a risk assessment basis. Majority of the schools are not affected. The Department is taking a staggered approach to determine the risk and has mandated the provinces to take a decision.” Gani said he was pleased with the speedy vaccination process. “School closure will add to the non-delivery of schools. Parents are asking for schools to be shut down but learners will be  unattended to and will loiter in malls etc. It defeats the purpose. When children are at home, parents should make sure that they are gainfully and educationally occupied. The children in disadvantaged homes do not have access to data for online learning and not going to school will disadvantage them further,” added Gani.