The Xaba family has been left poverty-stricken and are calling for assistance after their house in Cornubia caught fire earlier this year.  According to the official report from the Fire Department, the cause of fire is undetermined. In 2010, eThekwini Municipality built a stadium in uMlazi and moved the family from uMlazi D Section to a transit camp in Isipingo. They spent five years in the transit camp and when there was a flood, the family was moved to a hall in Lotus Park. In 2015, the municipality provided a house for the Xabas in Cornubia. The family said their joy turned into a nightmare when their house in Cornubia caught fire in the early hours of 13 March. Daniel Xaba, 59, who is disabled said, “There was loadshedding on the night of 12 March. My family was asleep in our house when we heard a ‘busting’ sound at around 5am. The upstairs caught fire very quickly. Fortunately my children who were sleeping upstairs were saved. My 11-year-old child got burnt on the face and had some breathing problems. He has since recovered. By 6am the fire engine and ambulance had arrived. We informed Councillor Thinga Siyabonga,” said Daniel. Daniel’s wife, Busi, 36, said she works in a factory as a cleaner and does “piece” jobs. She explained, “Before the fire we were having problems with the power supply which sometimes did not work. We complained to the municipality many times and have reference numbers but that too burnt in the fire. I was buying electricity via the bank and felt that it did not last long. It bothered us that the electrical wiring was visible and could be seen protruding through the walls,” she said. Busi explained that since the fire, they do not have electricity and running water inside the house as the pipes got burnt. She said they are using water from the outside main tap. “We catch water in a bucket and use that for cooking and ablution. It is very difficult not to have running water inside the house. I cook outside when I do not have money to buy paraffin for the stove. We have nine children in total and one has epilepsy, especially when he is hungry. Neighbours helped with clothes for the children. The upstairs has no roof as it burnt out, so when it rains the water gets in through the roof and flows down the stairs, into the living room where we all sleep, causing the house to flood and ruining whatever has been salvaged from the fire,” she said. She explained that most of their important documents got burnt in the fire such as their identity documents, children’s birth certificates, their parents’ death certificates and work certificates. “We managed to salvage a partially burnt marriage certificate and I had kept my identity document in my bag which got saved. The children’s uniforms, books and school bags got burnt. Our 18-year-old stopped school in Grade 8 as he was suffering from seizures, he is not getting a disability grant. My 21-year-old son need to look for work but without an ID, he is unable to. We do not have the money to fix our house as Daniel is disabled and is collecting a disability grant for 10 years now,” said Busi. Busi said she does not know where she will get the money to rebuild the house. “Our lives have stopped. The ‘jondol’ was better than this burnt house. We received a call on 5 May that there is a title deed to the house and we must come and collect. Daniel went to pick up the title deed but the municipality said they will not hand over the title deed as he does not have an ID. We would appreciate if a proper investigation is done to find the cause of the fire. We have nowhere to go. It’s cold but we stay in the house. Even the smoke in the walls make us feel sick. We need someone to help us fix the house. For us to rebuild is very hard as it is not easy to get the documents needed for school. Our winter clothes got burnt in the fire. My children need jerseys and blankets etc and the furniture either got burnt or was damaged in the water,” she said. The eThekwini Municipality, Human Settlements Unit on 21 May wrote to Nazeema David, Minority of South Africa (MOSA) candidate for Ward 102, who has been assisting the family. “This case was brought to our attention a few weeks ago. Whilst it is tragic and very sad we regretfully advise that the house has already been transferred to the approved beneficiary, and as such a municipal insurance claim cannot be lodged. The Municipality covers housing stock that is still in their ownership, i.e. in the interim period between hand-over to the approved beneficiary to the time that the property is transferred to the beneficiary. However, avenues of alternative relief are being explored in the meantime. The ward councillor, Mr Siyabonga Thango, is aware of the matter is also trying to find a way to assist. If there is anything that you can do that could provide relief, however small, this will be greatly appreciated,” wrote Fadeya Ebrahim. David said she was driving in the area when she saw that the house was burnt with extensive structural damages. “The family had no water and electricity, no food and clothes or bedding. It touched my heart when I was told that they have been living in this condition since 13 March with nowhere to turn to, after being turned away by the municipal departments.” David added that she stepped in to assist the family. “I went to SASSA who assisted with a food voucher, then I wrote to Human Settlements Department to assist with repairs to the house and was told that due to there being a title deed issued they cannot assist and that I should try to get sponsors. Even the councillor is not able to assist. Where are our humanitarian hearts for the destitute who cannot afford to repair or replace all their losses? They have nine children from a toddler to 21 years old. The father is disabled and the son needs medical attention. My plea is for the public to come forward and assist this family in the form of donations or if you can help with the repairs. Every bit counts. For more information contact Nazeema David on 062-434-0879.