Iziphozonke Mlambo, an articulate, intelligent and motivated individual, needs your help to make his dream a reality, Newcastle. The Newcastle High School matriculant has secured himself a scholarship to the prestigious Biola University in Miranda, California, to study medicine. “Growing up I have always dreamed of becoming a doctor. Every day I dream of helping millions of patients. I have dreamed of establishing medical care centres, hospitals and mobile clinics in various rural areas in our country. My aim is to assist with the betterment of the healthcare system,” he said. Izi, as he is fondly known, says that he grew up being a sick child. “I had a weak immune system so I would always be in and out of hospital. Specifically government hospitals. Being sick, I watched hundreds being ill and I witnessed many of the elderly suffering due to lack of resources and a slow-paced medical system. I see doctors having to deal with hundreds of patients and the higher the doctor to patient ration, the lower the amount of special personal healthcare the doctors would have to give their patients,” said Izi. He further explains that this issue was worrisome for him as a child and he so badly wanted to be on the frontline and assist. “I want to implement innovative solutions in order to ensure quality medical care for all the people of our country. As I grew up, so did my ideas. I then made it my mission to succeed in this dream of mine,” he said. Izi secured his scholarship by excelling academically. “I have always participated in the Regional Eskom Expo for Young Scientists and always walked away with a silver medal. This ignited an unquenchable passion for science in me. I was also selected as the only senior in South Africa to represent the country at the Global Regeneron Science Talent Search of 2020,” he said. It was then that Biola University, School of Science and Engineering, invited Izi to join their Honours Science Programme. “After careful observation of all my accomplishments, the university allocated me with a GPA score of 3.98. This then propelled the university’s presidential office to grant me a fully-paid academic scholarship to the value of  $93 000 which will cater for tuition and living expenses for the duration of my stay in California,” he explained. Unfortunately, the scholarship will not be paying for transportation to the USA as well as the health insurance plan which is mandatory. Izi is expected to be on campus in the United States by 10 August and his first semester will begin on 30 August. In order to pursue his dream and get to his destination, he would have to raise R30 000 within the next few weeks. This would cover airfare, visa and service fees and an additional R15 600 to cover the first year’s medical insurance. “Once I am settled, I can then get part-time employment to pay for each year’s medical insurance,” he said. “I know that there is not much time left but I will not let my dream die,” he added. Izi went on to say that there are many people who inspire him, one of which being Mayor Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba. “He has an outrageous sense of leadership and commitment in impacting the community for change,” said Izi. Izi’s mother, Nelisiwe Mlambo, is very proud of her son. “I am so proud of him. I will miss him when he goes across the world but I know that he will be pursuing his dream. I wish my son everything of the best,” she said. His sister, Lindokkuhle Mntambo, also expressed her feelings saying how proud she was of her brother. “He is my little brother and I am so proud of him for coming this far,” she said. If you would like to assist in making Iziphozonke Mlambo’s dream a reality kindly contact Nelisiwe Mlambo on 066-285-1108, Lindokuhle Mntambo on 081-859-3749 or Mr M Govender, Principal of Newcastle High School, on 034-312-6048. The Newcastle Express will be keeping track of this young man’s journey to medicine and wishes him all the best in reaching his dreams.