The Zungu family’s prayers were answered when they received a fully-furnished new house following the brutal killing of their mother about two years ago. The family was left without a breadwinner when their mother was shot in front of them in 2019.The house was built within a month with the help of prisoners as part of the Department of Correctional Services offender labour programme that took place in the KwaNobamba, KwaMadondo area. In support of a victim-centred criminal justice system, the Department of Correctional Services is redirecting its offender labour initiatives to largely benefit the victims of crime. Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Ronald Lamola, accompanied by his Deputy Inkosi Phathekile Holomisa, uThukela District Mayor  Siphiwe Mazibuko, Inkosi Langalibalele Mayor Jabulile Mbhele, SABC Board Chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini, businesswoman Shauwn Mkhize, the Al Imdaad Foundation and other stakeholders handed over the house. The three bedroom house also has a living room and a kitchen. It has brought much-needed relief to the family. In the past, the family were living in a shabby structure which posed a health hazard and a danger to them. The Zungus were overwhelmed by the fact that they will now be living in a brand new house. Lamola was disheartened when he learned that the murderers had not been arrested. He pleaded with the community to assist the police in bringing the criminals to justice. “We have to be exemplary as well, as we are committed to restoring the dignity of ordinary citizens of South Africa,” said Lamola. The Al-Imdaad Foundation supported the project by providing the fencing for the house and some of the furniture, including beds and wardrobes. The Foundation also established a garden for the family as part of its 1 Home 1 Organic Garden project. Seedlings for the garden were sponsored by Pastor Msomi.  Mayor Siphiwe Mazibuko said he was grateful for the collaboration between the government and the private sector sponsors which led to the home being built for the family.