An Amanzimtoti mother received a three-year jail sentence after she was convicted for abusing her nine-month-old infant, in an incident which occurred in March this year. The uMlazi Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) Investigations Unit probed the case and Detective Constable B.M. Langa worked tirelessly in ensuring justice prevails. Constable G.S. Nyoni, uMlazi SAPS communications officer, said Langa gathered all the evidence to build a water-tight case, leaving no stone unturned. “On 10 March, a 41-year- old female accused (name omitted to protect the child), who is the mother of a nine-month-old infant at the Amanzimtoti area was arrested on the same day for child abuse. The accused assaulted the infant and her own mother. The accused threatened to kill the infant when her mother tried to intervene. The accused appeared at Durban Regional Court to hear her fate and received a sentence of three years’ imprisonment.” The role of the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) Investigations Unit is to ensure the effective prevention, investigation of FCS – related crimes; and to ensure excellence in service delivery to victims of family violence, crimes against children and sexual offences. “The South African Police Service (SAPS) has called on the community to work together to keep children safe and for parents to be more vigilant when it comes to their children’s whereabouts and activities. The call comes following National Child Protection Week, 30 May to 6 June, an annual government initiative to raise awareness of the rights of children,” said Nyoni. The eThekwini District commissioner, Major General Vukani Mgobhozi, said, “We will continue to fight crime by ensuring that those who abuse children and all those who commit sexual offences do not get away with these crimes. “Our aim is to bring closure and justice for the victims for the crimes committed against them. I applaud the investigating officer Constable Langa for his good work, our police will continue to arrest and investigate all those caught on the wrong side of the law”.