The National Horseracing Authority (NHA) in collaboration with the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Sport and Recreation (DSR) has announced that it has finalised the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Traditional Equine Industry (TEI) with the KwaZulu-Natal Gaming and Betting Board (KZBGBB), and the Agribusiness Development Agency (ADA).  The objective of this partnership and collaboration is to create a platform for greater participation by previously disadvantage communities in economic opportunities presented by the horse racing value chain, including the sport, agricultural aspects, tourism aspects, regulation, administration and gaming. The agreement will also enable the TEI to unlock funding opportunities to support the development of the sport, infrastructure, agricultural support, veterinary services and other industry-related services, said Susan Rowett of the National Horseracing Authority. “The master plan for the development of the TEI is an immensely exciting initiative and the NHA are honoured to be able to play a part.  We look forward to using our operational expertise as regulator of the thoroughbred racehorse industry to assist in the development of the traditional equine industry.  We anticipate that there will be many areas of synergy and mutual benefit because everything revolves around appreciation and respect of the horse,” said Rowett. The TEI has a rich history of promoting long-standing traditional horse-sporting activities in the KwaZulu-Natal regions, providing temporary economic opportunities to thousands of people during their annual events such as the Durban July which contributes more than R15 million annually to the local economy. Dr C T Sifunda from the provincial Department of Sport and Recreation said: “The department is excited to be part of this MOU which will further advance the development of the traditional equine industry. We are happy to join hands with critical stakeholders to fully explore the vast opportunities presented by this industry and maximise its entire value chain for the benefit of horse owners and communities.  Traditional horse racing started from humble beginnings and has grown in leaps and bounds over the years, and now with this partnership the industry is set to become a major contributor to economic growth and radical economic transformation.” Sifunda said the cooperative agreement will underpin the implementation of Transformation, Socio-Economic Development programmes within the Traditional Equine Industry which, in turn, will assist in job creation and contribute to developing the rural economy as most races currently take place in local districts within the province. Portia Baloyi of the KZN Gaming and Betting Board said: “I am pleased to note that the signing of the MOU is the beginning of a journey we are undertaking with some of the key stakeholders that can assist the development of the Traditional Equine sector in KwaZulu-Natal.  We look forward to fruitful engagement with the Authority and all other stakeholders in the implementation of this Traditional Equine Industry programme.” Baloyi said through the MOU, the NHA seeks to promote all facets of the TEI racing; protect the welfare of the equine and human athlete; and protect and grow its local social and economic significance for current and future generations and its sustainability.  The KZN Agribusiness Development Agency, which focuses on development and funding support for emerging businesses and organisations in the province, is excited to be part of this initiative that is aimed at promoting the rural economy through the Traditional Equine Industry, incorporating rural horse racing. ADA CEO Zenzele Ndlela said: “ We are looking forward to sharing our expertise in agribusiness for the development of the Traditional Equine sector.”