With mounting costs as a  result of damages to their vehicles, the residents of Emona in Tongaat are up in arms and demanding that the Department of Transport fulfill their promise of repairing and maintaining the D776 road which leads to their homes. This after a tender contractor allegedly left them high and dry after a few months of work, over 10 years ago. The road covered in potholes, uneven tar and with no pavements has damaged vehicles and caused accidents, the most recent was a few months ago when two vehicles collided, due to a lack of space and road markings. Prakash Mathura, a resident of Emona for 62 years, said ever since the Department of Transport, Roads and Community Safety took control of maintaining the road it has become dilapidated and been left in an unsafe state. “When the department took over they said it is now a district road and called it D776. Their idea of maintaining it was to just push a grader over it. They never took any proper care of the road to ensure that the work they did will last.” Mathura said following a confrontation between the community and the department, it was agreed upon that the department would conduct a rehabilitation of the road. “This was a ‘chip and spray.”  They levelled out the road, put some black stuff over it and levelled out the tar in chip form, hardened it and left. When we asked the department why they didn’t do a proper job they said it was too expensive and that this was only a temporary solution.” He said after contacting the department on multiple occasions a lady who was contracted via a tender began working on the road. “She started work from the top of the reservoir and proceeded down the road. She had to complete approximately 26 kilometres of road. This was about 10 years ago and the work still isn’t completed.” To avoid having their vehicles damaged Mathura said the community had no choice but to fill in the potholes themselves. “In the 36 years I’ve been working in the area I have damaged four vehicles. I’ve had to replace tyres and rims and repaired suspensions on all my cars about three times. Every time I take it to some form of authority they just turn a deaf ear. Not long ago a farmer from the area had his truck damaged because of the uneven tar. The truck leaked so much oil we had to tow it from the bottom of the road.” Apart from not having proper roads, Mathura said the lack of sidewalks mean that pedestrians, including scholars have no choice but to walk on a busy main road. Another resident, Sanjeev Ramparasad, who has been a resident of Emona all his life, said the battle of getting the municipality to maintain the roads is an ongoing issue. “It’s in a terrible state. We drive on these roads daily. I have a transport business and all this takes a toll on my vehicles. The cost of wear-and-tear are far greater than normal. Not long ago two motorists collided due to a lack of space for them to comfortably pass each other.” Ramparasad said the fact that there are no sidewalks is hazardous. “In recent years there were incidents where two scholars were hit by vehicles. We believe one of them had even died. Whenever we bring this to the attention of the municipality they turn a deaf ear. Our community is forgotten.” The Department of Transport, Roads and Community Safety spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane, said the department is in the process of preparing documents to attend to maintenance requirements for D776. He said, “The documents for the betterment and re-gravelling of the road will be presented to the Bid Specification Committee (BSC) on Wednesday, 9 June. Documents for blacktop patching is at draft stage and is expected to be at BSC by 17 June. The quotation for installation of speed humps will be invited by 30 June and the installation of side walks is at assessment stage and tender invitation is expected by December 2021 with installation to begin in April 2022. As from next week the internal team will start clearing the verge using a grader.”