The intrepid journey into fatherhood can be as daunting as it is rewarding, however, Hope For the Heart (HFH) will be making the transition easier for young and new fathers in Wentworth with the introduction of their Legacy Dad’s Programme, set to commence ahead of Father’s Day on 20 June. Historically, Father’s Day came about from Sonora Smart Dodd, in 1910, when she commemorated her father, United States Civil War veteran, William Jackson Smart, for raising her and five siblings as a single parent. Hamish Marais, an HIV Aids youth councillor at the Blue Roof Wellness Centre, Khethukuthula Mhlongo, Lubonakele Msizazwe and Andrew Marais will be part of the first group attending the Legacy Dad’s Programme. “Besides the gifts, Father’s Day is about celebrating your family and spending quality time with them that you wouldn’t otherwise have because of work or responsibilities,” said Hamish Marais.  Jane Wright, HFH director, said overall the programme will re-install the values and benefits associated with a family unit by assisting and educating, first-time fathers with children in early development, from birth to age seven. The programme will be headed up by Petros Shinga, who will teach the dads how to communicate with their children, what to expect, duties and offer practical advice through four sessions of engaging workshops. Andrew Marais, an intern at Blue Roof, said the first intake will see fathers and young men wanting to better themselves and break generational cycles of absenteeism and fears in the figural role. “I’m a father of a four-year-old son and one-year-old daughter. Growing up without a father myself, I sit back and think how I will engage with my children as they grow older and need guidance. So a programme like this, especially in our Wentworth community, is very necessary.” Reflecting on their personal growth and challenges, the first group, albeit not all fathers yet, are looking forward to the workshop and encourage fellow young fathers, or those new to the role, to join in. “To create a future path you need to know where you come from and what you’re capable of. I want to pass on a lasting legacy and be a positive role model to my children and theirs to come,” Mhlongo said. For more information about the Legacy Dad’s Programme, which is completely free, and how to get involved and book your seat, contact Jane on 064-890-9324 or email jane@hopefortheheart.org.za. Alternatively visit the Blue Roof Wellness Centre where Hope for the Hearts is based.