The Department of Basic Education Minister, Angie Motshekga, announced that schools will remain open and vaccinating of educators and support staff will proceed with urgency. This was due to the learning losses already suffered since March 2020, as a result of Covid-19. Motshekga was holding a media briefing on Saturday on the education sectors response to Covid-19 and its impact on schooling. She said that this decision was taken after consultation with key stakeholders such as The Council of Education Ministers, teacher unions, national associations responsible for governance in public schools, learners with special education needs, independent schools, and the South African Principals Association. She said: “We believe that schools must remain open and in saying so we are not insensitive to the concerns raised about the rising infections. We continue to handle Covid-19 cases according to the differentiated strategy, on a province-by-province, school-by-school basis.“ Motshekga said that while there are disruptions in the sector, the majority of schools remain fairly stable and that social partners and key stakeholders expressed the same view in engagements. “The sector will proceed with vaccinating of educators and support staff. The vaccines have arrived, and are in the process of being distributed to all provinces. Provinces confirmed that they are ready for the vaccination programme,” said Motshekga. “DROP ALL, AND VACCINATE!” The vaccination programme will start on 23 June to 8 July, a day before schools close to mark the end of the second school term. The minister said that vaccination is voluntary but highly recommended. Those to be vaccinated are : • All PERSAL Staff (as at April 2021) in DBE (educators, administrative and support staff) at all public schools; irrespective of their age; • School Governing Body appointed teachers, and those teachers employed by independent schools • 582 000 persons will be vaccinated over 10 to 14 days, weekdays and weekends • A strict registration process will be followed – • For PERSAL staff members whose details have already been captured onto the Electronic Vaccination Data System (EVDS); • Lists for SGB appointees and independent school educators will be uploaded onto the EVDS; • On-site data capturing will be required for individual’s cell numbers; and medical aid details; • No ON-SITE registrations • The Departments of Health and Basic Education at provincial and district levels, will work together to link schools to identified vaccination sites; and • The verification of basic education staff – where the EVDS is offline due to power outages, will require a list or letters signed-off by the staff principals. Those who may not qualify to be vaccinated: • Any person who had contracted Covid-19 in the past 30 days; • Any person who was vaccinated using another vaccine (Pfizer or Johnson & Johnson, under Sisonke); or • Any person who had received a flu vaccine in the past 14 days. The vaccination programme must cover – • Staff who transport children to and from schools; • Staff who support the school feeding scheme – the food handlers; • Staff who do remote learning programmes (TV and Radio); and • Staff of Teacher Unions, and other contracted staff who provide security, do cleaning and other functions at school.  The management of Covid-19 cases in schools Schools were urged to apply the Standard Operation Procedures (SOPs) when managing Covid-19 related cases. Every school must have a Covid-19 committee, a Covid-19 file, and compliance officers. Return of primary school learners Motshekga said that cabinet approved the proposal to prepare for the return of traditional time-tabling at primary school level with effect from the first day of the Third School Term on 28 July 2021.