The South Coast is abuzz with excitement following the latest sighting of the “greatest shoal on earth” in Margate, after sardines washed up on shore in the early morning. Despite the inclement weather grounding fishermen and anglers, the turbulent seas have not halted the silver bullet-like pilchards’ migration via the South Coast. By Thursday, reports of sardines being spotted in Hibberedene and as far as Amanzimtoti, had social media aflutter with excitement. This after Greg Thompson, of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Sharksboard, confirmed that shark nets have been lifted and that bathing is now prohibited on some beaches. “Shark safety gear has been removed and bathing has been banned from Port Edward to Scottburgh at the moment.” This gave indication that the Sardine Run season was now in full swing for the South Coast. “Beaches between Umgababa and Isipingo have also been banned due to flooding rivers and muddy sea conditions. We are also unable to service our shark gear, due to the weather, and there is a possibility that we may have to start banning other beaches on the north coast as precautionary measures.” With no ‘sardine fever’ vaccination in sight, local netters, fishermen and avid pescatarians are biting their nails in anticipation for the silvery pilchards to show up at their beaches. Onlookers and buyers are reminded to keep a safe distance away from nets while they are being pulled in, as they could easily be hurt by heavy equipment and predators, such as sharks and stingrays, which follow netters to shore. CEO of Ugu South Coast Tourism, Phelisa Mangcu, said the Sardine Run is one of the area’s biggest tourism attractions and that they are optimistic this will be a good year for visitors to have front-row seats to the spectacle. “Last year we were fortunate enough to have several days of sardine sightings, although lockdown restrictions impacted visitor numbers which saw Ugu South Coast Tourism (USCT) sharing footage across social media platforms. While we will still be giving audiences the chance to experience the spectacle, virtually, from home, we’re encouraging visitors to take advantage of the easing of lockdown measures and come visit in person, with all relevant Covid-19 safety measures in place.” For more information and updates on the Sardine Run tune in to your local radio station or follow ‘The Sardine Run’ groups on social media platforms.