After having all their artwork taken by the Durban Metro Police last week, the street trading artists well known to  the Glenwood community, Victor Mpofu and his two  co-workers, are trying all they can to get a trading permit. After trading in front of the Glenwood Woolworths store on Bulwer Road since 2008, Mpofu said it came as a shock to see the police parking in front of them, saying that they received complaints from members of the community and store management that they were harassing customers. “We have never forced anyone to buy us food or to buy from us throughout these years. When I asked the store manager what the problem was after our artwork had been taken, he refused to speak to me and told me he does not know what I am talking about.” Mpofu added that when all his artwork was confiscated, he was told to pay a fine of R600. “When the police came back again they said I should pay R1300 as I had failed to comply with municipal by-laws.” Parboo Sewpersad, Metro Police spokesperson, said he can confirm that Mpofu’s artwork was confiscated and this was done as he did not have a trading permit. “If he continues to trade without a permit and we receive a complaint we will go and confiscate his work again until he gets a permit,” he added. There were mixed feelings among residents who posted on social media after the artist’s work was confiscated. Others felt that it was about time that Mpofu and his partners got a permit. A concerned resident felt that it was unfair on the artists. “The guys have been operating in front of the store for a number of years keeping an eye out for criminal activity that may happen on the street corner. They need the community’s assistance to get a trading permit,” said the resident on social media. Another resident called for the Glenwood Urban Improvement Precinct (GUIP) team to intervene as the artists are also beautifying the street corner. Mpofu and his co-workers are currently operating from KZNSA Art Gallery on Bulwer Road from Tuesday to Sunday whilst they await their permit from the municipality.