Durban Central police are investigating a case of murder after a man was shot dead in a suspected hit on Thursday, 17 June along Dali Road in Stamford Ridge.  It is alleged that the man in his thirties was driving his vehicle when he was jammed by unknown suspects in another vehicle. It is further alleged that the shooting could have been a hit and the victim was followed by the unknown suspects. Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala said the occupants in the vehicle blocked the car the victim was travelling in and opened fire, fatally wounding him. “Nothing was taken from the deceased. A case of murder has been opened for investigation by Durban Central SAPS,” said Captain Gwala. Community safety organisation, eThekwini Secure’s Zain Soosiwala said members of eThekwini Secure also attended to the scene of the shooting. “Eye witnesses said several shots were fired at a man who attempted to flee into a nearby car dealership for safety. Unfortunately the man was shot at and succumbed to his injuries,” he said. Meanwhile, Soosiwala said they have noticed a spike in hijackings, house break-ins, business robberies and robbing of security guards in the Musgrave, Morningside and Umbilo areas lately. “The brazen criminals are attacking during the day when residents least expect it.With the latest lockdown regulations, we have also noticed an increase of hijackings of e-hailing drivers. We are urging residents and motorists to always be wary and do not drop their guard. Stay vigilant at all times,” said Soosiwala. With the reported increase in criminal activities in the Morningside area, a restaurant at the corner of St Thomas and Musgrave roads was also robbed on Friday, 18 June. It is alleged that 10 heavily armed suspects came in a silver-grey Etios and a Ford Ranger, and held up a security guard and an employee at the business premises. They fled with two television sets and a cellphone. “No shots were fired and no injuries were reported. We can confirm a case of business robbery was opened at Berea Police Station,” said Capt. Gwala.