For some children, blurred vision is something they accept as ‘normal’, and that’s where the Durban non-profit organisation, Bright Eyes comes in.  The organisation is aimed at caring, educating and supporting visually-challenged children from birth to four years old. Bright Eyes, Cathryn Aylett, head educator said, “We want to help clear the ‘fog’ hampering so many little people’s early learning. Our interventions prevent low-vision-associated developmental delays in young children.” The Durban North Domino Foundation works with over 60 ECD centres where few of the parents would be able to afford treatment of any visual challenges detected in their children. The two NPOs have teamed up to implement a programme of testing every learner in the centres to detect common vision problems affecting children such as myopia (short-sightedness), hyperopia (long-sightedness) and astigmatism (distorted vision) in addition to other sight-related conditions. Usually, these problems are easily corrected if identified early. Sihle Nxasana, Domino’s marketing manager, said, “If we can identify which children are having problems with seeing, we can work with Bright Eyes to ensure the learners’ visual impairments do not hinder their education.” Aylett agreed with Nxasana saying vision is a critical factor in a child’s education, whether reading and writing, seeing the board clearly or taking part in recreational activities. “Untreated, the problem could easily mean the child falls behind and won’t catch up.” Aylett described what the roll-out of Bright Eyes’ screening the children will entail, she said, “Over the course of three months, we will visit each of the 60 centres and each child will be tested. If we detect a problem, we will work together with the centre and the learner’s parents to put a corrective plan of action in place.” She added that follow-ups will be done and support given to increase the children’s possibilities of truly bright, fully balanced futures. Nxasana added that he would welcome enquiries from other groups who would like to offer their assistance in ensuring the young learners are put on a firm educational foundation. Nxasana can be contacted on 031-563-9605 or email: marketing@domino.org.za.