His relentless dedication to sports and commitment to progressing the Tongaat and Verulam Games, better known as the TONVER Games, has garnered Trubel Primary School principal, Guru Ramcharan, a coveted Ammen Award. The prestigious Ammen Awards 2021 were hosted by the Shri Mariammen Temple in Mount Edgecombe, to honour 29 people from the different facets of the community. According to Seelan Archary, chairman of the temple society, “There are so many ordinary people in our diverse community doing extra-ordinary work in order to better the quality of lives of the people of our country. Such ordinary people doing extra-ordinary work must be recognised”. Ramcharan, who is also the president of TONVER, was bestowed with the Excellence in Sport award. In accepting this prestigious award, the modest Ramcharan, dedicated the award to all the managers and coaches of the various schools who go the extra mile in preparing their charges for inter-class, inter-school, inter-district and provincial championships. “These are the unsung heroes of school sports.” Chantel Govender, chairperson of Trubel school governing body (SGB), who was also the sports girl and head prefect at this primary school, also paid tribute to the passion and commitment of Ramcharan. “His vision and passion led Trubel to many victories on the sports field, also efficiently managing a state- of-the-art school. He deserves only the best.” Long-time colleague and role model, Kola Govender, also showed his appreciation of Ramcharan’s efforts. “It is a fitting award for a tireless community and sports administrator, who stands heads and shoulders above the rest in this. Guru has been a great motivator to sustain the interest and success of the TONVER Games. “He has been able to infuse his passion in the learners and teachers, in order to get the best out of them, with so little resources. We, the community salute a true champion of people’s education”. The awards committee said, “Your reputation as a sports coach and administrator is well known and appreciated. You have by your actions and commitment to education and sport changed the lives of many who have passed through your hands. Your unconditional dedication towards the upliftment of poor communities deserves special recognition and praise”.