The Run Your City (RYC) Series is searching for its #Number1 supporter in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town. Taking the form of a 6-week competition, runners were given an opportunity to sign up on social media from last Wednesday, 2 June and in addition stand a chance to become the  RYC Series ambassadors. Three winners will also each take home an impressive PUMA hamper to the value of R15 000. Michael Meyer, managing director of Still Water Sports and founder of the RYC series said: “The RYC Series Community consists of truly inspirational people.They enjoy being outdoors, they live life to the fullest and very importantly love the sport of road running – everything that the RYC Series promotes.  We are thankful for the support that the series has received since the inception of the first event, the Cape Town 12K CITYRUN in 2015.  We would like to show our gratitude by identifying and rewarding our top 3 supporters.” Meyer said the search for the #Number1 supporter in each city will take the form of an exciting six-week competition.  “RYC Series Community members can sign up via social media. Candidates will be assessed against pre-determined qualifying criteria.  A shortlist of finalists will be compiled and released.  The finalists will then have a week to let their creative side shine while they prove to the RYC Series community that they are the RYC Series’ most loyal fans,” he added. The most creative contender in each city will claim the #Number1 fan title and be crowned an ambassador for 2021/2022 and additional prizes will be announced at a later stage. “We can’t wait to see all the creative submissions.”  Entries close on Wednesday, 23 June and the short-listed candidates will be announced the following Wednesday, 30 June. “The finalist in the shortlist will then be given a chance to let their creative side shine from Wednesday, 30 June to Wednesday, 7 June. Winners will be announced on Wednesday, 14 July,” said Meyer. To enter visit the RunYourCity website and like, share and tag the announcement post, share a post of your self preparing your gear the RYC series and you will also increase your chances of winning. For more information email: entries@durban10k.com