The month of June marks the celebration of young people in South Africa, especially the youth of 1976 who fought against the oppression of the apartheid regime.  Youth Day, 16 June, honours the brave young people who took a stand against having Afrikaans as a medium of instruction in schools. On 16 June 1976, thousands of young people, dressed in their school uniforms, took to the streets of Soweto with the intention of displaying a peaceful demonstration. It was on that day that the young Hector Pieterson lost his life. Social work manager and spokesperson for the Tongaat Child and Welfare Society, Jo Moodley, said although the protests led to the death of many young people, it also brought about positive change and contributed to the freedom struggle in SA. “This year marks 45 years since the uprising and this significant milestone encourages us to reflect on our growth, development as well as progress as a nation. The power of youth demonstrated over the years, is the hope we give to future generations. The strides we take as a developing nation should replicate those courageous youth, who fought for the rights and privileges benefited by South Africans in present day.” Moodley said the youth of today reap these benefits whereby choices in linguistic academia have been catered for during their pursuit of primary and secondary education. “The enrolment in a tertiary institution is no longer based on one’s race or subjected to inequalities. Serving the community as a child protection organisation, for over 80 years, we provide supportive social work services by advocating for the most vulnerable as well as ensuring that children, youth and families function cohesively.” In recent years many young people have fallen victim to social ills which has led to the drastic breakdown of society. Moodley said moral degeneration is a universal phenomenon and negatively affects society, with specific reference to how family life and school life are currently experiencing a serious moral breakdown. “Evidence has displayed that there is a general lack of discipline and increase in violence, bullying, substance abuse, promiscuity, teenage pregnancy and defiant behaviour exhibited by our children. Youth have been awarded the right to education, however, we find that a percentage of our youth are not displaying the responsibility of that right as many disrespect educators, abscond and drop out of school.” She said the basic education system of today prepares the youth for adulthood. “Learning fundamentally occurs more intensely during childhood and adolescence rather than during any other phase of the life cycle. “Education involves the development of one’s physical growth, cognitive skills, emotional intelligence, the acquisition of knowledge, understanding, responsibility and the shaping of values, attitudes, and the belief system of an individual. The young generation of today are becoming more and more materialistic, whereby numerous teenagers are slowly putting aside their morality to make way for their unhealthy desires.” Moodley said these strong desires for material objects, addiction to social media and lack of responsibility drives them to lose control of their impulses without acknowledging the consequences of leading a lifestyle which is saturated by mobile technology and social media. “It is a grave concern that some youth are immersed in gaining popularity by victimising and bullying their peers. “Tongaat Child Welfare urges the community to participate in the commemoration of Youth Month by making positive changes in one’s lifestyle as the present and future role of the youth will be involved in shaping the landscape of our beautiful country. Dear youth, support each other as the future of our country is in your hands.” Anyone who requires counselling, advice or assistance may contact the Tongaat Child Welfare offices on 032-944-1514.