“What Joey did to me was wrong and he should be in jail. I want what he did to me to be known. I do not want him to be free to do this to another child.” Those were the harrowing words of a 15-year-old Phoenix teenager who was allegedly raped over a period of time by a family friend who was entrusted to transport her to school in his vehicle. “Whilst transporting me to school, he first molested me and then he raped me. He threatened me and said if I talked about it he would hurt me and my family. He said that my family will not believe me because he was their friend. I tried to commit suicide. Telling my story helps me find peace and helps save another child because he transports children to school,” claimed Eve*, in an exclusive interview with The Phoenix Tabloid.    Leandren (Joey) Padayachee, 30, was arrested and charged for rape and appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Friday, 25 June. Outside the court, family, friends and community leaders demonstrated against rape and called for the suspect’s bail application to be denied. However, Captain Louise Naidoo, spokesperson for Phoenix SAPS, confirmed that R3000 bail was granted to the suspect. Eve’s mother, Susan*, said Joey was a trusted family friend. “His family owns an e-haling taxi service and he was transporting children to school in his car. Eve started travelling with Joey in March.” The mother said from mid-March, Joey allegedly started to kiss Eve and allegedly forced her to perform oral sex. He allegedly told Eve that if she told her family about what he was doing then they would not believe her because they trusted him and he said he has people who can harm the family. “She was scared because he threatened her. She used to come home from school and be very quiet, which is unusual. I knew that something was wrong because her personality changed and she wanted to be alone. Her communication was different. She said she was stressed about school. He told her he will not let her go until she tells him she loves him. On 5 May he raped her. This happened every second day when she went to school. She told him to stop and he threatened her. He said that he was bigger than her and nobody will believe her,” alleged the mother. Susan said on Friday, 18 June, Joey allegedly instructed her to kiss another boy in the car. “She refused and he forced her to kiss the boy. After the boy got out, Joey got upset that she kissed the boy. He threatened Eve and twisted and bruised her hands,” further alleged Susan. The mother claimed that on the same day, Eve came home from school and slept. “She looked depressed. On 19 June she tried to commit suicide by taking pills and cutting her hands. She had written a suicide note, however, her grandmother stopped her. When asked what the problem was she said that school was stressing her out,” claimed the mother. Susan said she felt it was something more and informed the pastor and his wife who counselled Eve. “She confessed to the pastor that Joey had raped her. Eve was taken to Phoenix Police Station on 22 June and a case of rape was opened. She went to Thuthuzela Centre at Gandhi Hospital on 23 June. What is sad is that he is married and has a two-year-old child. I want teenagers to know that they should not be afraid to talk to someone. Nobody should hurt, threaten or put you down. Joey was our friend but Eve is our child. Nobody has a right to hurt another child. As a community we need to stand together and fight rape or these sexual perpetrators will take over our children. We will let the law take its course,” said the mother. Eve’s brother, Stanley*, said what Joey did to his sister was wrong. “She was very scared because he threatened her but she stood up to him. He used to pick her up at 5.30am for school, saying that he had to leave early to pick up other passengers. If there are other learners who have been abused or raped, they need to speak out.” Magdalene Moonsamy, a committee member of Caneside Clinic and a counsellor, said she deals  with women and sees their challenges. “Women need to stand up for their rights and take authority over GBV. Women are lights in their homes and they bring light into darkness. Women have as much a say as men do. Women need not be fearful. Stand tall, do not let anyone walk all over you. Women are not doormats,” said Moonsamy. Melasa Isaiah, chairperson for Women of Destiny – Ward 49, said GBV has escalated in communities and we must do something about it. “It has to stop now. Today it is Eve and tomorrow it is another schoolgirl. It is sad that a child who is busy with exams has to go through this trauma. Parents and community leaders need to empower our children and tell our male children that females are not the weaker sex and should be respected. The community needs to come together to fight this scourge. The youth should know that no matter what happens in their past, it should not determine their future. Youth should be challenged and motivated to walk in the bright future ahead of them. *The name of the victim,  her brother and mother have been changed to protect the identity of the teenager.