As winter sets in and Covid-19 infection rates continue to rise, many have been left wondering how they will get through what appears to be a very challenging season.  To ease this burden, the Verulam Young Muslim Society with the aid of Ward 106 councillor, Johnson Chetty, kicked off their Youth Month community upliftment with a wheelchair and blanket donation drive. On 8 June, they donated a brand-new wheelchair to Solindaba Mjaja in Waterloo. Mjaja was totally immobile due to a serious medical condition and previously relied on family and friends to get around. An overjoyed Mjaja expressed his gratitude with a beaming smile as he said nobody had heeded his cries for help previously. On 12 June, the disabled children and caregivers of Ramakrishna Mzamo Centre in Hilltop were treated to a large donation of blankets, groceries and other essentials. The centre is home to about 20 disabled children and relies on donations to a large extent. Khalil Cassim, spokesperson for the Verulam Young Muslim Society, said with these initiatives they are hoping to create a closer-knit community where everyone does their best to help those in need. “We had a request for a wheelchair as the man to received it is unable to walk and gets very sick. He hasn’t left his home in months and is usually under the care of neighbours when his wife goes to work. When we saw his situation we had to do something to help.” Regarding the blanket donation, Cassim said, “There are many children in desperate need, living in the shelter. The donation of blankets was greatly appreciated. We also donated goody bags with sweets and chocolates to show appreciation to the caregivers who work tirelessly to ensure the children are well taken care of.” Chetty, who was tasked with handing over the donation of blankets and groceries from the society to Mamsie Zwane and her family in Waterloo, said the family had suffered a serious calamity when their RDP home was totally gutted a fortnight ago. “The donation was greatly appreciated by this family, especially in light of the fact that it’s peak winter and several children are affected. I highly commend the Verulam Muslim Youth Society for their sterling role in helping the less fortunate in our communities. I wish them well in their endeavours in future,” he said.