A 35-year-old Camphor Crescent resident, Khanyisani Kubheka, was gunned down, a few metres from his gate and another man seriously wounded in a shooting in Smartiesville. Khubekha was shot seven times and one of his companions was shot twice. Residents told The Ladysmith Herald that they heard eight gunshots on Monday evening, 24 May in B Section eZakheni. We did not want to come out of our homes, it was only when the police arrived that we stepped outside,” said one of the residents. They said this was not the first time that they have heard gunshots  coming from the Kubekha’s home. “They are new to the neighbourhood, but this is not the first time that they have been attacked,” said a resident, who wished remain anonymous. Police said that the Camphor resident was walking home with two other men, when they were allegedly attacked by two gunmen. “We heard shouting and then gunshots,” added another witness, who said they saw the two men running down the street. A second man was injured in the shooting and sustained a gunshot to the stomach and leg. “My husband had covered him with a blanket and we immediately contacted the police, our community WhatsApp group and the emergency services.” Family members of the injured man had rushed to his side as KZN EMS worked to stabilise him. A paramedic who was offduty at the time had also rushed to assist. “The third person was not injured during the shooting. Ladysmith Police are investigating a case of murder and two cases of attempted murder. Police are requesting anyone who can assist them with information to come forward or contact them on 08600 10111 or at MySAPS app, said Captain Bongani Nathi. The road was cordoned off as onlookers braved the winter evening to watch police gather evidence. Residents said this could have been worse as people were making their way home and that a taxi usually stops in that vicinity to drop off people from work. “The police really need to up their game in Smartiesville as our children could have been injured.” The deceased has not yet been officially identified and no arrests have been made by the police. The motive for the shooting is unknown at this stage and police are conducting investigations.