Rydalvale man brutally stabbed and robbed by gardener ‘Give me all the money.’These were the malicious words which sparked a violent attack, on a Rydalvale resident leaving him with five stab wounds at the hands of a casual gardener, on Sunday afternoon. The almost deadly tussle led to a bloody scene and a huge amount of cash stolen by the runaway thief. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the stabbed Rydalvale resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said: “I cannot believe how this man who I treated like a family member turned against me and tried to kill me for cash. He was dead-set on getting his hands on the money and was willing to kill me for it.” The heinous ordeal unfolded when the gardener accosted his employer and demanded for cash which he knew the employer had in his possession. “I was cleaning up the shower area in my home when suddenly the suspect grabbed me in a headlock and attempted to suffocate me. I lost conscious for a few minutes and when I regained my senses, the suspect and I began to wrestle. I asked him why he was behaving in such a violent manner and he demanded for the money. He refused to give up and then drew a knife,” said the traumatized resident. “The suspect stabbed me multiple times and appeared to be intent on subduing me even if it meant ending my life. My attacker than grabbed the cash which I left at my prayer lamp and fled,” the injured victim added. “There was blood everywhere. I lost a lot of blood and managed to make my way out of my house to seek help,” the Rydalvale resident said. He added: “I treated this man like a family member. I prepared food for him, gave him clothes, paid him for the tasks he conducted and I even bought him food when I went out. I felt sorry for him and tried to show as much compassion as I could. He lived nearby and I felt that he deserved an opportunity at building a better life for himself by earning some cash. Sadly, my good intentions backfired and almost cost me my life. I urge residents to only hire people to work for you and enter your property once you have acquired enough information about them and their work history. In this way you can protect yourself, your family and safeguard your belongings.” Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) reported the incident and exposed the runaway suspect’s picture in the interest of public safety. A search is underway for a vicious employee. RUSA head, Prem Balram, said: “These kinds of attacks are not uncommon especially when residents employ casual workers without conducting any reference checks. Inexpensive labour can cost a resident their life or yield serious injury. The resident in question is fortunate to be alive and it is imperative that residents refrain from employing people off the streets for quick chores. You are exposing your home and family to possible criminals who put on a good façade but can turn on you in an instant when motivated by greed or malice.” Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, confirmed that a robbery case is under investigation. “It is alleged by the complainant that he employed a general worker, believed to about 34-years-old, for the past two weeks. While the complainant was repairing his bathroom, the worker was working outside and he came into the house and began to demand for money. A struggle ensued and the complainant was assaulted and stabbed several times. The suspect took an amount of R25, 000 and fled. The victim was rushed to hospital. Members of the Phoenix SAPS Trio Crimes unit are busy tracing the suspect,” Cpt Naidoo said. She added: “Police urges unsuspecting property owners/ residents to desist from employing casual workers without some background checks. Some individuals can be roaming the streets purporting as ‘job seekers’ but in fact have some ulterior motives of entering resident’s properties and robbing them. Residents should hire reputable companies to till their gardens and perform other tasks on their property rather than jeopardizing their safety in the hands of ‘wolves in sheep skin.’” Phoenix Community Forum chairperson, Umesh Singh said: “Criminals are callous and focused on unleashing violence on residents. There have been brutal attacks on residents either stabbing or shooting and this is alarming. As members of the community we need to adhere to safety and security warnings issued by police and refrain from entertaining strangers in our homestead. Trusting a stranger can be a potential danger. We also need to safeguard our homes and ensure we do our best to keep our families and residence safe.”