A Yellowwood Park teenager is recovering after he was severely assaulted by a fellow learner at Durban Academy High in Fynnlands on the Bluff, leaving him with a broken leg, in crutches and fearful of going back to school. According to the 15-year-old learner, he was teased and bullied by a fellow learner at the school. It is alleged that the learner in question attempted to provoke the victim by “continuously touching him with a fallen tree branch”. The victim, Uthando Phiri, said that the learner tried to intimidate him by calling him names. According to reports received, the two boys entered into a fist fight and Phiri was tripped and pushed to the ground. It is alleged that the teen was then punched while he was on the ground. Unbeknown to the perpetrator, Phiri was severely injured during the altercation, resulting in a broken femur. In a statement made to the Southern Star, Uthando said, “I was standing on the sports field and I saw *Ebhodla Ubuqhwaga (not real name) standing on top of a tree branch. He touched me with the branch and I asked him to stop. He responded to me by saying ‘what are you going to do about it?’ He continued to call me names and tease me and said I must move away from the branch. So I did.” It is alleged that Phiri’s friend made a remark to Ubuqhwaga which caused him to become enraged. According to Phiri, the boy rushed at him and used his chest to push him. “I knew I couldn’t get away so I pushed back at him. He ran towards me at full pace raging with anger like he was about to tackle me. We began to exchange fists. After a few minutes he tripped me and I fell down. He pressed his right thigh onto my left thigh. He did not know that I was injured so he continued to punch me while I was on the ground.” According to Phiri, several learners looked on as the fight intensified. Hoping that one of the learners or an educator would step in and stop the fight, Phiri was left to defend himself. “I knew I had to stop the fight by myself. I tried to strangle him so that he would stop punching me. He asked me to let go of him and as I did, he got off me.” Phiri then attempted to stand up, only to realise that he was not able to. “I could feel the bone move in an unexpected way and actually come apart. I was in so much pain that I couldn’t move my leg.” As the boy lay on the ground, unable to move his leg, other learners gathered around him and instead of assisting the injured teenager, they began to laugh at him. “Even though they (the learners) could see how badly I was hurt, they made fun of me and continued to laugh at me.” When asked what he believed was the reason for the bullying, Phiri said, “He (Ubuqhwaga) called me fake and a liar. I have a passion for music and poetry. I also write my own rap lyrics. He accused me of stealing lyrics and using them as my own. This is not true. This upset me a lot because I am not someone that wants to be known as fake or a liar. He taunted me for months and then it eventually led to this fight.” Phiri said he brought his fears of being bullied to his educators attention last year (2020) but it fell on deaf ears and he continued to be taunted and belittled by his peers. “The more you try to tell the teachers that this is happening to you, the more you are victimised by the kids. “Phiri was taken to the sick room at the school where he waited for his family to arrive. “I said to my teacher that I needed to go to a hospital because I was in a lot of pain. I remember being told that I need to wait for my parents to get there. I waited in the sick room until my uncle and my mom got to me.” Njabulo Phiri, Uthando’s uncle said, “When I got to the school my nephew was just laying on the bed in the sick bay. No calls were made to the paramedics. I believe that he was checked on once by the educators prior to our arrival. When I looked at his leg, I could see that it was bad because his foot was facing the opposite direction. We carried him out to the car and drove him to King Edward Hospital in Umbilo where he was admitted.” Uthando has since been discharged from hospital after having undergone surgery to repair the damage to his femur. Charity Phiri, Uthando’s aunt said, “Uthando wants to be a rugby player like his sports idol, Siya Kolisi. Knowing that he has to live with a metal plate in his leg – the chances of him playing rugby again might not be possible. Uthando wakes up screaming at night. He is deeply traumatised by what has happened. He said he is afraid to go back to school because he knows he will be ridiculed by the other kids. Someone needs to be held accountable for my nephew’s pain and suffering. We, as a family need some form of justice for this terrible incident. No formal communication has been directed to my sister, Uthando’s mother, regarding any disciplinary action that has been taken against the boy (Ubuqhwaga).” Kwazi Mthethwa, spokesperson for the KZN Department of Education said, “We have no place for bullies in our schools. Should a bully be identified, we will follow the processes to make certain that disciplinary action is taken upon that student. We will not tolerate this kind of behaviour in our schools.” At the time of going to press, Mthethwa said that he was not made aware of this incident. “All educators have a responsibility to ensure the safety of our children. Every school must follow the correct procedures when dealing with these types of issues.” When approached by the Southern Star for a statement, the school declined to comment.