The frenzied digging for alleged diamonds near Ladysmith this week has brought into stark contrast the plight of rural South Africans, and their aspirations for a better future.  “Alarmingly, it would appear that the government and its geological experts are dragging their feet in releasing their findings on whether the rocks found are indeed diamonds,” said MPL Heinz de Boer, KZN spokesperson on Economic Development, after government officials reported that a conclusive result can only be given within a period not exceeding a month. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Ravi Pillay, with the mayor of Alfred Duma Local Municipality, Vincent Madlala as well as officials from the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy, traditional leader Inkosi Sphiwe Kunene, the SAPS and representatives of statutory and regulatory bodies visited the KwaHlathi area outside Ladysmith, on 15 June. Many illegal miners were waiting to hear if what they are digging for are in fact diamonds. “The implications of a diamond find would be massive for the Ladysmith region, with entire communities potentially becoming millionaires overnight. Conversely, much effort and excitement may be quickly squashed should the rocks not be the most sought after precious stone,” said de Boer. Social media reports, show a man calling his wife, telling her that she must burn the house down, because he has struck it lucky. “This is what is concerning, what happens if these rocks are not diamonds, who is going to be held responsible for actions like these,” said someone on the social media feed. Others also asked the question why it has to take so long for results. The Democratic Alliance (DA) said that it believes the government could have long ago established the composition of the stones. “Private sector jewellery experts are able to identify and evaluate diamonds within minutes using handheld evaluation tools, and the government’s protracted stance raises concern. Compounding the situation is how government may manage the find if the stones are diamonds. Highly regulated and legislated, the diamond industry is generally not in favour of individuals benefiting from precious stone finds. The DA will continue to closely monitor the situation, and insist that the local community and people are the true beneficiaries should diamonds really have been found, “ said de Boer.