Putting the Indian community on the map, Avishkar Sonna has become internationally recognized for his unique DJing style. He has also collaborated with big names in the industry. This musical genius had a chat with the Newcastle Express to tell us more about his journey onto the international stage. Newcastle Express (NE): In a nutshell, who is Avishkar Sonna? Avishkar Sonna (AS): Avishkar Sonna is a 33-year-old graphic designer and animator for Primedia Outdoor by day, and legendary DJ and music producer ‘Deejay Avesh’ by night, much like your favourite superheroes. I’ve been rocking parties and nightclub events consistently for 15 years so far. My original songs and remixes are played by most DJs in the country and are now starting to make waves internationally as well. NE: What is a typical day like in your life? AS: Absolutely hectic! It’s business as usual from 9 to 5. Then juggling between nightclub flyer designs, promo video editing, music production, voiceover, and studio recordings, keeping up to date with the latest music, remixing, family time, and a whole lot more from 5 till late, sometimes the early hours of the morning. NE: You are a renowned DJ and music producer. How and when did your love for music begin? AS: It’s always been there. I knew from an early age that this is what I loved to do, and began handling the school PA system and music from as young as 10 years old. Playing music for my peers at end-of-term parties and sports days are the days I looked forward to; and this continued until I matriculated. While other kids were playing sport, I was learning how to mix songs together which led to me making my first remix at 14 years old. Back then, we could not afford proper DJing equipment but technology was beginning to catch up and I downloaded a program called PCDJ which had no BPM meter or sync and you actually needed to learn how to beat-mix as you would do on turntables and a mixer. This is what fascinated me, and I’ve spent countless hours exploring my creativity with this software. Fast forward to 2006 which is the year I did my first radio interview and nightclub gig at 18 years old. The rest is history. NE: You created your first mix at the tender age of 14 when youngsters are usually figuring out Pythagoras. What inspired you to mix your first track and what was the response to this? AS: I grew up in a home where music was a constant. One of the first CDs my parents bought was Die Hard 3 by DJ Jiten and this coincidentally was a remix album. I knew the English songs, but when I heard Hindi lyrics with those beats, I was blown away! After years of having these CDs on repeat, I discovered the Bump CD range, which was at volume 5 at the time. My uncle gifted this CD to me for Christmas, and before that, I never heard of a CD that played non-stop from start to finish, with the songs blending seamlessly with each other. The moment I got to work on the PCDJ software, I started experimenting with blending songs like the Bump CDs, and thereafter, DJ Jiten’s remix style of taking popular English tracks and remixing the beats with Hindi songs. I recently found a copy of this first remix I did in 2002 which was Koi Mere Dil Se Pooche with the beat of Tribal Blast. I’ve never shared this remix with anyone except close friends and family but their response was supportive. NE: Give us a journey into your production and tell us about some of the big names that you have collaborated with. AS: I was fortunate to start at a young age, so by the time I turned 18, I had a collection of remixes that I had already done. This is what set me apart as an upcoming DJ/producer as I played exclusive music that you could only hear when I was DJing. I produced my first original track in 2013 called ‘Take You Away’, which featured local songwriter and vocalist RAH. This track was created when EDM was just beginning to peak on the radio charts and the song was signed by Keith Thompson, based in New York, who is one of the pioneers of house music. He signed the track to Jamlure/Thompsonic Records and that was my first taste of global success. Since then, I’ve worked with many local artists such as Rajdev “Kinx” Nundkumar who is the lead singer/songwriter and composer of the hit group from the 90s, Charous With Attitude. My go-to vocalist for Bollywood songs is Imran Aslam Mohammed, who has the most melodious voice in SA. Suraj Jewan, Rivaan Bechan, Abdul Rahim Rasool are also some of the talented vocalists I have worked with and as of recently, Guyanese artist Terry Gajraj and the legendary Guyana Baboo who is based in New York City. Terry G is one of the prominent names in the industry and has worked with artists such as Babla and Kanchan, Sundar Popo etc. NE: You have a global fan base. How does this make you feel? AS: I feel absolutely amazing! It’s been a long journey that is far from over, and I am consistently breaking through previous goals and reaching for the stars. NE: Tell us more about the competition that you won. AS: Terry G released a track called Shake Yuh Kangkalang and created a worldwide remix competition where DJs and music producers could submit their remix of his song. A friend alerted me about the competition and suggested I enter. There were cash prizes for the top 5 remixes and being a huge fan of Terry’s music, I thought of giving this a shot, not thinking that the remix I submitted would become part of the top 2 in the world. I won second place in the competition and then Terry G reached out to me on WhatsApp to say how much he loved my remix. We instantly clicked as he was the humblest person I had ever spoken to, similar to me. We began chatting even after the competition ended and started to throw ideas around on how to fuse the Guyanese culture and South African culture which are so similar. I created the backtrack to Chal Gaye Nana and sent it to Terry, which he loved and we began working almost immediately. NE: You have put Indians, who are generally known to be very conservative, on the map. Why should more Indian people be more daring in career choices? AS: I sometimes find that we are scared to make the first move. You never know what the future can hold if you do not take that first step. The worst that could happen is that you do not get a favourable response, in which case, you get back up and try again. At the same time, you need to weigh your options and think about the pros and cons of your decisions so stay ahead of the curve. NE: You worked with the late Dharam Sewraj. What was that like? AS: It was one of the most memorable experiences for me. Dharam was an industry giant and played a major part in building the careers of legends such as Yvonne Chaka Chaka, DJ Ganyani and DJ Black Coffee, yet he was such an approachable guy. We had really big plans for the future and I am working closely with his daughter Raksha Sewraj who has taken over the business, to make sure his visions and dreams become reality. Dharam mailed me from his hospital bed to tell me that Chal Gaye Nana was a hit and that we should go all out on this one in terms of a professional music video and marketing strategy. I am grateful that I got to work with him and will always remember his advice and guidance. NE: Where to from here? AS: The next project is a tribute song in memory of Dharam Sewraj. He formed a collective of producers, singers, and musicians before he passed on, who have become a family; and this is our way of honouring him with a song that is timeless. This is also going to be an international collaboration with artists whose lives Dharam has touched, so it’s a project I am grateful to have conceptualised and be seeing through. NE: When you are not mixing, what are you doing? AS: A night off would consist of chilling at home, catching up on TV series and movies. At some point, I would go into my studio and play some tunes on the keyboard or just record rough ideas. You never know when inspiration strikes. NE: If you could collaborate with any person in the world, who would that be and why? AS: Definitely Daft Punk or Deadmau5! These guys are the most out-of-the-box thinking producers that make electronic music with a constantly evolving sound. The technical knowledge that could be passed down to me is priceless! NE: Favourite destination? AS: I would like to visit Guyana/Trinidad/Tobago to see and experience their culture which is so similar to ours, and possibly work with their extremely talented musicians as a bonus. NE: Favourite food? AS: Mutton Curry NE: What would be your ideal date? AS: I’m pretty easy to please. As long as we have good food and atmosphere, I don’t care about location. NE: Favourite song? AS: Chal Gaye Nana of course! It is THE HOTTEST song at the moment! NE: What advice do you have to offer the younger generation who would like to follow the same career path as you? AS: Practise and perfect your craft. Aim to be unique and have something different to offer. At the same time, always have a plan to fall back on. Life happens, and in these extremely challenging times, you always need to have a back-up plan. NE: Mercedes or Lamborghini? AS: Mercedes without a doubt! The only ‘Lamborghini’ I have is the song by The Doorbeen.