It’s all systems go for the much- anticipated clash between the Springboks and the British and Irish Lions, who are set to tour South Africa (SA) in July. SA Rugby recently confirmed the appointment of Jaco Peyper, A.J. Jacobs, Marius van der Westhuizen and television match officials Marius Jonker and Stuart Berry as being among the referees for the tour. Berry, O’Keeffe and Raynal will be taking charge of the test matches. SA Rugby director, Rassie Erasmus, said participating in a British and Irish Lions series is a remarkable achievement, especially since it only comes around every 12 years. “I’d like to congratulate our match officials who have been appointed to officiate in this year’s spectacle. They are all world-class referees and their appointments in the series and the July internationals against Georgia serves as confirmation of that, and the quality of the refereeing structures in South Africa. Just as every player who meets the British and Irish Lions cherishes the opportunity to face them, I have no doubt these deserving referees will do the same.” According to SA rugby, Jacobs will blow the first whistle of the series in a match between the Emirates Lions and British and Irish Lions in Johannesburg on Saturday, 3 July. Peyper will referee the first midweek clash between the Cell C Sharks and Lions on Wednesday, 7 July, also at Emirates Airline Park. The tour is set to take place between 3 July and 7 August, in Gauteng and Cape Town under a bio-bubble aimed at minimising disruptions which could be caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The British and Irish Lions will play three test matches against the Springboks as well as five other matches. Lions managing director, Ben Calveley, said Covid-19 has caused considerable disruption to the global sporting calendar and that they are pleased to be able to go ahead with the tour. “While things will undoubtedly look different to a typical Lions tour, together with SA Rugby we are determined to deliver an uninterrupted series for the players who will take the field, as well as the many millions of people watching at home.” World Cup-winning captain, Siya Kolisi, will lead the 46-man South Africa squad. SA Rugby president, Mark Alexander, congratulated the players selected for the squad which includes the likes of scrum-half Faf de Klerk, centre Damian de Allende and winger Cheslin Kolbe. “I would like to congratulate the players who have been selected and wish them luck as they prepare to defend their crown. The rivalry between the Springboks and the Lions has been fierce, but it is also characterised by a tremendous respect. As the excitement and anticipation builds in South Africa and the United Kingdom for the spectacle, I would also like to express our gratitude to our valued partners for their magnificent support as we continue to navigate our way through these extraordinary times,” Alexander said. The series will now kick off in Gauteng with three matches against provincial opposition before moving to Cape Town for two more warm-up matches before the first Test at Cape Town Stadium on Saturday 24 July. The tour runners have confirmed that all ticket holders for the original schedule will receive a full refund. SA Rugby also confirmed that SA resident ticket holders would have first right to purchase tickets for the revised schedule if restrictions on attendance at sports events were lifted have booked ticket-inclusive packages through Lions Rugby Travel and its appointed official sub-agents have been contacted separately with the options available, as have those who had successfully purchased test match tickets via the Lions ticket ballot.