The Newcastle Municipality Mayor Cllr Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba together with Deputy Mayor, Cllr Rueben Molelekoa, Speaker of Council Samkelisiwe Yende and Chief Whip Cllr Dolly Mnguni headed out to Aletheia Christian College to hand out Bibles to 35 young minds.  This thoughtful drive held on 28 May was aimed at re-instilling the importance of reading, learning, and attending school in the ara of Covid-19. Furthermore, it also had the primary purpose of reminding the young minds of the importance of following the teachings of the Bible. Citing from the book of 2 Timothy 3:15-17 that reads: “And you know that from childhood you have known the sacred scriptures, which are able to give you wisdom for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All scripture is inspired by God and is profitable for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.” Mayor Mahlaba said that these words frame and capture the essence of why it is important for young people to own the “book of life”. “If you don’t read you won’t gain additional knowledge resulting in you remaining stagnant. If you don’t stimulate your brain it is not going to work as effectively as it should. Today we are gifting you with this reading material to restore your understanding of Christianity and how your relationship with God should be,” said Dr Mahlaba. Speaker of Council, Councillor Samkelisiwe Yende also elucidated that the Bible is an integral part of our society and that it deserves a place in the classroom. Cllr Yende said that it is paramount to teach children to read at a very young age, to unlock their knowledge. “We are here to honour and celebrate you. It is paramount that we encourage you to keep reading and learning as your future looks bright and promising. Also keep in mind that the more you read, the more knowledge you are going to have. The word of God is sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit,” said Cllr Yende.