Calls for justice to be served following the brutal murder and rape of 22-year- old Anele Bhengu from KwaMakhumutha are growing louder following the arrest of a 39-year-old suspect in Port Shepstone, on Thursday. Bhengu, who was last seen alive by her family last week Friday, had left home to go sleep over at a friend’s house and was due to attend a church event the following day. Her aunt Nonto Bhengu, said the discovery of mutilated body on 13 June at Hill area in KwaMakhutha, had left the family shocked and devastated. According to the Department of Social Development, Bhengu was found dumped after she was allegedly raped, stabbed, her throat slit and her stomach had been cut open. Bhengu said the cruelty in how Anele was murdered had left the family devastated. “They gutted her and slit her throat. There was no reason for them to have done that. To imagine the pain that she must have felt, really breaks my heart. The hate behind what they did is too much to bear. At least with the arrest of the suspect we can have peace. Justice will give some sort of peace.” Anele’s sister, Mbali Bhengu, said “Our family is broken. I don’t know how I will cope without my sister. She was a lovely and kind person who didn’t deserve to die like a dog. For now we want justice for Anele. Our family is very appreciative of all the support and the love from everyone.” KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, officers from Port Shepstone Tactical Response Team, Margate Detectives and the law enforcement agency followed up information regarding the suspect who brutally killed a woman in KwaMakhutha which led them to Mlahlandlini area at Gcilima. “Upon seeing the police officers, the suspect fled from his home into the nearby bushes. “The police gave chase and he was caught in the bushes. A 39-year-old suspect was placed under arrest and detained at Margate SAPS. He was transferred to KwaMakhutha SAPS for processing. The suspect is set to appear before the Umbumbulu Magistrate’s Court soon.” The hashtag #JusticeforAnele has been trending on all social media platforms.  The community is outraged at the brutality used to end the life of the woman described by her family as a “loving person”. This week, activists and scores of members of the LGBTQIA+ community marched to the KwaMakhutha Police Station to demand a thorough investigation be conducted in what has been identified as a hate crime against the LGBTQIA+. Members of the LGBTQIA+ community made an urgent plea to parliament to pass the Hate Crimes Bill. Fears continue to grow within the gay community as homophobic attacks are on the increase. Hlengiwe Buthlezi, director of the LGBTQIA+ organisation said, “We welcome the arrest. “This is a step in the right direction, however we are watching this case closely and we move towards the conviction of this criminal. We are asking for no bail and we are saying that we want a heavier sentence.” KZN premier, Sihle Zikalala speaking at the Youth Day Commemoration event at the Harry Gwala Athletics Stadium said, “We condemn in strongest terms the violence and violence perpetrated to any section of the society, including the attack and killing of members of the LGBTQIA+ community.” His call for justice was also supported by the MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza, who urged South Africans to stand side by side to protect the LGBTQIA+ community from abuse and murder. She said Bhengu’s murder has sparked more fear within the gay and lesbian community as they are increasingly becoming targets of homophobia. “The brutal murder of this child is symptomatic of the challenges we have in the society. We are left in shock and fear by the killing of our children in this province. Our constitution was the first in the world to protect people from discrimination because of their sexual orientation. We also became the first in the African continent to legalise same-sex marriages, but we still experience these murders and abuses. We all have a responsibility to end these violent crimes in the province. We need to get to the bottom of this as to why people have so much hatred towards the LGBTQIA+ community.  We call on all citizens to work with the law enforcement agencies, government and different bodies to end such cruelty,” Khoza said. Throughout the week the family has been receiving support, visits and messages of condolence from the local community, organisations linked to the LGBTQIA+ community and different religions. Bhengu expressed her gratitude to everyone that continues to be at their side. “Despite what has happened I ask every member of the  LGBTQIA+ to not change who they are. Do not be scared to live your truth. Everything passes, this too shall pass. We are grateful for your support. All of you,” she said. The 39-year-old suspect is expected to appear in court on Monday morning, facing charges of murder and rape.