In the spirit of uBuntu, Old Mutual  is lending a helping hand to the disadvantaged community of  Umbumbulu, in the south of Durban.  As the Covid-19 pandemic wreaks havoc throughout the nation, many rural communities have been the worst hit. Families have been left destitute as a result of each Covid-19 death. The impoverished community has seen a spike in unemployment and poverty, leaving behind orphaned children to fend for themselves. Fikile Kuhlase, head of the Old Mutual Foundation, said, “The tragedy of South Africa is that, by 2018, it already had 2.7 million orphans. Of these, nearly 500 000 are found in KwaZulu-Natal’s impoverished rural areas where the children have to rely on community goodwill for survival.” Reviving the well-being of a community starts with a single step, said Kuhlase. “Old Mutual has decided to step in and drive a change for the orphans and the homeless in the poverty-stricken community. This project will not only benefit the families who get a chance to own homes, it will also create jobs for community members,” she said. Covid-19 has undoubtedly contributed significantly to the heart-breaking reality of what the community faces. Kuhlase said the company aims to empower South Africans, both corporates and individuals, to tackle a problem that could have dire consequences on society as a whole. “We have supported the practical, action-based interventions of Habitat for Humanity South Africa (HFHSA) for 18 years. Our latest contribution of R500 000 through the Old Mutual Foundation is assisting the HFHSA with their Orphaned and Vulnerable Children (OVC) Programme in Umbumbulu,” she said. Construction has already begun on three houses that will become homes to families identified as being among the most vulnerable in the area. According to Kuhlase, the homes’ quality structures adhere to the National Home Builders’ Registration Council (NHBRC) requirements. A local Umbumbulu builder has been tasked with the construction of the project and is using local labour to create employment in the area. “Through the construction process, development opportunities will also emerge for those involved to acquire skills that could open prospects locally and in nearby towns. All the homes are being built on land to which the new owners will have full title. The homes, built of brick with tile roofs, will offer the occupants access to electricity for the first time and have rainwater-harvesting tanks to ensure a constant supply of water for the families,” she said. The people of Umbumbulu are undergoing a life-changing experience. Many residents have never had the privilege of being home owners. With assistance of a home owners’ session, residents were guided through the home owners’ process by teaching them about maintenance, home ownership rights and responsibilities. “Three women who single-handedly look after 12 children, including youngsters abandoned by their birth mothers, were given the opportunity to attend these information sessions. They will also be helped to develop appropriate financial management skills. In addition, they will receive the socio-economic support they need to sustain their improved lifestyles,” said Kuhlase. Resident, Khayawethu Mlaba, said, “We are so happy and we feel so fortunate thanks to Old Mutual. They are doing good work to help us to live better lives.” Another community member said she was so emotional when she saw the first bricks being laid. “This is a step in the right direction for our people. So many of our children been left homeless because of Covid. This gives us hope for their future. The Umbumbulu project is the latest in a series of projects that have been supported by Old Mutual and reaffirms a relationship that in 2013, saw the Old Mutual Foundation and Habitat for Humanity SA celebrating a partnership that had resulted in 100 homes being built – a milestone that no other HFHSA corporate partner has achieved. “Since then, the total has increased to 136 homes in KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng and Western Cape. We are proud that we are a part of a project that provides not only homes but sound support on which stability, strength and hope for the future can be built,” says Kuhlase.