The protection of children remains top priority for Brighton Beach SAPS who embarked on an educational campaign, in the south of Durban, to bring an end to the prevalence of child abuse and neglect in the area. Marking the end of Child Protection Week, which was 30 May to 6 June, Brighton Beach SAPS held a static display event aimed at empowering and reconditioning residents on the threats that children are exposed to on a daily basis when occupying public space, including schools. Captain Louise Le Roux, Brighton Beach SAPS media liaison officer, said victim-friendly ‘Captain Lollipop’ also made an appearance and helped in getting the message across. “The strategic objectives of the SAPS were achieved through the static display by hosting an event that had educational value by means of availing visual aids and educational literature to create awareness on the threats children are exposed to on a daily basis when occupying spaces as we re-condition societies during Child Protection Week,” said Le Roux. The presentation boards discourage bullying in schools, lying, teasing and stealing other children’s personal belongings among other issues. It also encouraged mutual respect while raising awareness about stranger danger, verbal and physical abuse. Lessons that Lenore Edwards, a gender-based violence specialist from Zoë’-Life says that children need to know about as child abuse is often regarded as physical although it exists in several forms. “We work at grass-root levels with community caregivers, providing skills and specialised training through workshops showing how best to utilise gained information from abused youth and take appropriate action through channels of social workers, departments, bodies and law enforcement.” Edwards said that abuse can even be cases of emotional or verbal abuse, intimidation, harassment, and cyber-bullying. “Child abuse varies and can even be subliminal or psychological, so it is imperative that those working with youth are able to identify what constitutes children’s rights and any abuse they may experience.” Le Roux said the campaign also touched on underaged drinking, smoking, vaping and chewing of tobacco, including the consumption of banned substances. They also advised youngsters not to touch or play with dangerous objects such as firearms, crackers, candles, electrical devices, knifes, matches, and fire. “The touch and consumption of alcohol, energy drinks, detergents and medication are also discouraged,” she added.