Fountain Head farmers are calling for an increase in police visibility in the area after an urgent service delivery meeting raised concerns about rampant crime, including livestock destroying crops and non-existent water meters, in the Umkomaas area.  Although the farmers aired several issues with the SAPS, including poor real-time response times, no visible patrols and unreasonable delays in reporting on or investigating pending cases, they were, however, open to working alongside police through neighbourhood watches and collaborative crime prevention. Bob Daniel, Ward 99 councillor, said these issues, similar to those of farmers in Crowder, needed serious attention before they escalated in frequency. “The first session of the meeting focused on brazen crime in the area and how to tackle this. Service delivery issues were next. These included the current state of the roads, verges, property rates, water and electricity. These issues combined mean financial loss for farmers who are also dealing with crop damage from neighbouring communities with unfenced livestock.” Warrant Officer Ajay Thawnarain, Umkomaas SAPS communications officer, expressed his gratitude to all those in attendance for forwarding crime prevention as a priority despite lingering frustrations from farmers. He said, “A united front against crime is needed and we’ll be working alongside residents to better the situation.” Despite acknowledgments, Fountain Head and Crowder farmers are still calling for a remote satellite SAPS station at the intersection of the two communities which they believe will be a crime deterrent in itself. Daniels said the issues raised are numerous. “We are hoping to revive the Umkomaas Farmers’ Association to further aid our forgotten communities.  At the moment I am reaching out to the provincial Department of Agriculture, who have failed in supporting the local farmers, to provide fencing, manure and other necessary resources needed to stop crop damage for the time being.” If you are a farmer in the extended Umkomaas area and would like to join in on the discussion of crime, farming, service delivery, security and safety contact councillor Daniel on 083-318-1250 or email bobdanielnda21@gmail.com. Alternatively call Umkomaas SAPS on 039-973-3103.