Premier Sihle Zikalala officially opened the Food for Life Food Bank at Centre Road in Newlands East on Friday, 11 June.  The food bank will be used to assist communities in need of food relief to eradicate hunger and ultimately fight poverty. Zikalala was joined by Sibaya Community Trust chairman and businessman Vivian Reddy, Human Settlements and Public Works MEC Jomo Sibiya, Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza and other dignitaries at the official opening. Zikalala said the provincial government works with non-government organisations across the province to provide social relief to communities. “Currently, this social service has been intensified as part of the provincial government’s response to Covid-19. The voluntary work of the students blossomed into the world’s largest vegetarian food relief programme, Food for Life. We are pleased to note that you are an independent, non-sectarian charitable service working in over 50 countries. From this kitchen 12000 meals are served to the community of Newlands, KwaMashu and beyond. We salute the Food for Life volunteers and benefactors,” he said. Zikalala also acknowledged the generous financial contribution of Vivian Reddy, chairperson of the Sibaya Community Trust in building the infrastructure for this Food for Life kitchen. “The Sibaya Trust has a stellar record in reaching out to the poor and vulnerable in our society. We commend Sibaya for their relentless work in creating a better life for all our people. We are enriched by this spirit of community, by religious injunction that as sisters and brothers we are each other’s keepers, irrespective of race, class, faith, gender or sexual orientation. “When we speak of Newlands our attention turns immediately to the freedom fighters this community produced. Every June, we celebrate Youth Month to honour the memory of the young people who sacrificed so that we may live in freedom and dignity. The timing of the opening of this Food for Life project in Youth Month is also a symbolic historical moment in that it must again rouse our young people into action. In spite of all our challenges as a nation whether Covid-19, unemployment or social ills, we must always work to inspire hope,” Premier Zikalala concluded.