The Democratic Alliance has written to the the KwaZulu-Natal MEC, Kwazi Mshengu, to call for a full investigation into claims of ongoing instances of corporal punishment at Mzilikazi Secondary School in northern KZN.  This comes after the principal is alleged to be behind the last incident which saw a Grade 12 female learner literally blistered after being caned on the hand for simply walking from one class to another to borrow a pen. Dr Imraan Keeka, DA spokesperson on Education, has condemned this behaviour. “The DA strongly condemns the assault of this learner. Shockingly, we are also reliably informed that this is not an isolated incident but rather a habitual practice of this school principal,” said Keeka. He further explained that Section 10 of the South African Schools Act states that no person may administer corporal punishment at a school to a learner. And any person who contravenes this is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a sentence which could be imposed for assault. “This effectively outlaws corporal punishment in our schools and it must be considered as nothing more than gross assault of learners when it is meted out. While the family – who notified the DA of his crime – are reluctant to press charges for fear of victimisation, we have encouraged them to do so and to seek medical attention no one should leave any type of assault unreported because it allows for perpetrators to continue with their lawless misconduct in an unchecked manner. We have read of far too many cases that have not ended well,” said Dr Keeka.Apart from calling on the MEC to conduct a comprehensive probe, the DA has also asked him to suspend the principal until such time as all the facts can be gathered. Additionally the DA has called on MEC Mshengu to lay criminal charges against the assaulter. “Our schools must be a place of safety. Learning and teaching requires a safe and conducive classroom environment, where there is no fear of attending school due to the possibility of being beaten up – particularly by those who are responsible for ensuring that a quality education is priority,” said Dr Keeka.