Almost a dozen makeshift homes were completely burned to the ground after a ravaging fire engulfed an informal housing settlement in Westcliff on Monday night. The settlement, which is situated near the old Child Welfare building on Florence Nightingale Drive, comprised of a handful of families who sought refuge at the allegedly abandoned land due to scarce housing opportunities. One resident, Sibusiso Qungani, said that attempts to douse the blaze were futile and assistance from the fire department was required. “I came outside to fetch some water when I noticed that a room had caught on fire. When I saw this, I called out for more people to come help put the fire out but we could not do anything. I then asked my sister to call for help and she went out to seek assistance,” he said. Qungani’s sister Noma, was relieved that no children were hurt in the fire. She said: “I am just glad that all the parents who live here with their children are safe and that no lives were lost in this fire.” The brother-sister duo sought shelter at the settlement almost 10 years ago and has been living in the informal conditions since then. Noma said that the settlement was not child-friendly since toddlers and little children could easily run onto the busy main road and could get severely injured or even killed. Ward 70 councillor Tony Govender was at the scene and called upon eThekwini Municipality and government to implement measures that would prevent another tragic event in future. “Yet again, we are faced with a situation where people are living under such circumstances due to a lack of housing and a lack of proper facilities. We are fighting to give people a decent home, we had to rescue people by jumping over a wall and people coming out with babies. These people need decent homes,” he said. The Chatsworth Fire Department said that the cause of the fire was yet to be determined and urged people not to occupy dilapidated buildings. They said: “At the commencement of our shift at around 6pm, we were called out to what we thought was a house fire. Upon arrival, we found out that it was actually around five or six shacks as well as a dilapidated building occupied by some vagrants. The department took just under three hours to extinguish the fire. There was a lot of rubble and waste that made our job more difficult, however, there were no injuries and everyone was accounted for. The building is not safe for occupancy and people should not be residing there.