A former schoolboy at the prestigious Highbury School in Hillcrest where many Westville learners also did their schooling, Dinesh Patel, is facing procurement fraud charges along with his controversial Gupta-linked brother-in-law and 15 other accused in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court.  The Westville Weekly Gazette traced Patel’s Durban connections: he is the son of the late Wentworth, Durban, doctor Ramanbhai Patel, and housewife, Veena. On Tuesday, he faced charges alongside his sister’s husband, Iqbal Sharma, in a R25 million procurement fraud trial. A former Highbury School learner of the 1980s class, Patel is the youngest of three children. His high-living socialite-actress sister is Tarina Patel who married Sharma in a lavish Indian-Gujarati wedding that was filmed and broadcast on television. He and his brother, Hitesh, boarded at the prestigious boys’ school in Hillcrest in the 1980s. Their sister attended the posh Durban Girls’ High School. When curators acting on behalf of the NPA’s Investigating Directorate swooped on the Sharma’s R12-million mansion, they also seized Tarina Patel’s jewellery, paintings and other items – which she showcased proudly on the SABC Top Billing show – valued at R500 000k.The Patels are a northern KZN family of medical professionals who lived in Marine Drive on the Bluff. Dr Patel practiced in Tara Road, Wentworth, where he later built a large shopping and business complex in the heart of one of the city’s largest townships for the Coloured community. He died a few years ago. In a Top Billing TV feature, Tarina Patel told the presenter that the Indian-eastern décor, art work, ornaments, carpets and statues in Sharma’s “mogul mansion in Africa’’ in Sandton was inspired by her late father and that she also played a major role in furnishing the house. Patel travelled to India in the 1990s to make it as an actress in Mumbai-India’s highly competitive Bollywood film industry and apparently featured in some films and recently appeared in the TV series, Housewives of Johannesburg. Earlier this month, the National Prosecuting Authority’s teams swooped on the sprawling bungalow and seized one of the most widely publicised attachments in the history of the country’s prime properties, soon after seizing the Gupta brother’s plush and palatial housing compound in Saxonwold, outside Johannesburg. Sindisiwe Seboka, NPA Investigating Directorate spokeswoman confirmed Dinesh Patel’s appearance in the local court in the Free State capital on Tuesday. “Patel joins 16 other accused together with companies that face charges of fraud and money laundering in the multimillion feasibility study that was contracted to Nulane Investment by the Free State government.” A study to check the likelihood of the success of the Mohoma Mobung agriculture project. “The NPA has made direct family reference to Patel as Sharma’s “brother-in-law’’. Both accused are to also appear in court for their separate bail hearings this week. Patel was charged as a representative of Nulane Investment 204 (Pty) Limited, which was paid R25 million by the Free State Department of Agriculture, alongside Nulane Investment owner Iqbal Sharma, former Free State head of Department for Rural Development, Peter Thabethe, former FSDOA head, Limakatso Moorosi; and former Chief Financial Officer, Seipati Dhlamini.The charges are against three companies – Nulane Investment 204 (Pty) Ltd (owned and controlled by Sharma), Wone Management (Pty) Limited and Pragat Investment (Pty) Limited and Islandsite Investments (Pty) Limited. The NPA said the rest of the accused persons listed in the charge sheet – possibly including the fugitive Gupta brothers holed up in Dubai, United Arab Emirates – were currently not in South Africa.This is how the alleged procurement fraud was hatched according to the NPA: Nulane Investments was commissioned to undertake a feasibility study to check the likelihood of the success of the Mohoma Mobung agriculture project.  Investigations have revealed that Nulane Investments, had no employees on its books The ghost company instead sub-contracted the work to Deloitte, one of SA’s top five accounting and auditing firms, with a brief to produce the report. Deloitte received R1,5 million for the study report work. The only change made to the Deloitte report was to identify Parys Dairy as a “suitable implementing partner’’ for the development of a milk processing plant in Vrede.The Vrede dairy farm scandal is said to have been the straw that broke the camel’s back into intensive investigations of the widespread fraud and corrupt culture that was allegedly masterminded by the India-born Guptas – Ajay, Atul and Rajesh (aka Tony) – said to be in Dubai – during the controversial, nine-year presidency of Jacob Zuma. An extradition treaty signed between SA and UAE will pave the way to bring the Gupta brothers and their wives – presently in India – back to Johannesburg to face a series of charges involving billions of rands of government funds.