The #67000litres for Mandela Day Challenge is on and this year every South African with a kitchen and a heart for the hungry can participate. Chefs with Compassion is calling on everyday South Africans across five different categories to put on their aprons, clear out their pantries, and get cooking in the biggest nationwide cooking challenge for hunger awareness in South Africa’s history. Best of all, it can be done safely and from the comfort of your own kitchen. Last year, in a remarkable display of the true spirit of Mandela Day, over 300 chefs stood proudly behind their stoves, united despite the devastation of their industry, taking collective action to put their heart where their passion lies which is feeding people. The result, the target of 67 000 litres of soup was exceeded, and 77 455 litres was cooked, serving 309 820 cups of soup to hungry people all over the country. This year, Chefs with Compassion has initiated a nationwide challenge to beat the #67000litres target once again, this time challenging every single person, representing five different categories to dedicate their 67 minutes on Mandela Day to raising awareness of the shocking fact that 10 million tonnes of food goes to waste every year while 18 million people go hungry every day. The categories in this year’s “67 000 Litres for Mandela Day Challenge” are home cooks, hotels, culinary schools, kitchens (restaurants, pubs, canteens, catering companies), and corporates. Within each of these categories, participants will complete a ‘Clean Out Your Pantry’ Challenge, using close-to-expiry-date products and supplementing with wholesome and nutritious ingredients to make a hearty soup. Arnold Tanzer, chairman of Chefs with Compassion said, “Since we launched Chefs with Compassion in May last year we’ve been overwhelmed by the spirt of kindness, volunteerism and interest in making a difference – exactly the spirit that Mandela Day embodies. This year, as we reach the peak of the third wave and with Government calling on South Africans to isolate as much as possible, getting involved in 67 minutes of doing good on Madiba’s birthday is a little more challenging than usual. Meanwhile, one of the greatest problems facing our country is that of hunger. The #67000litres Challenge is the perfect way for every company, every individual and every hospitality industry player to give back. At the same time, this initiative will send the clear and resounding message that the food that is wasted across every stage of the food chain is sufficient to feed every hungry South African three meals a day.” Within the corporate category, Tanzer said caring companies in every sector can give their staff the opportunity to give back in a way that’s both safe and promotes teamwork and collaboration. “Corporates can participate in one of three ways, with staff cooking from the safety of their own homes, or in their company canteen, or by adopting a food truck and cooking in designated locations in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town, where their teams will cook in shifts of 67 minutes,” added Tanzer. The #67000litres challenge is an important fundraiser for Chefs with Compassion. Last year almost R150 000 was raised through generous donations from across the country as the public rallied behind this incredible initiative. “This year’s commitment to a donation by participants in the #67000litres Challenge will help us continue our mission to Rescue, Cook and Feed. Since the start of lockdown, we have served over 1,767 million meals through our network of entirely voluntary waste warriors, chefs, cooks and volunteers. Donations for participation in the #67000litres Challenge give participants the opportunity to be part of an incredible national initiative and in gratitude, donors will receive a cookbook containing soup recipes from celebrity chefs who will be cooking, along with thousands of South Africans, on Mandela Day,” Tanzer added. To be part of this one-of-a-kind national Mandela Day Challenge, go to https://cwc.org.za/latest-news/join-the-67000litres-challenge-this-mandela-day, download the information page relevant to your category and click on the link to register online. Follow the story on Facebook and Instagram using the hashtag #67000litres.