Fikile Cele, an aspiring presenter who dreams of being the next Miss South Africa, is breaking the mould and setting social media abuzz after daring to be different by openly discussing her adoption and being raised outside of her race. The 22-year-old said that her story is a living testimony of what it means to keep fighting and keep loving after she was abandoned, at birth, in a box and left outside a factory in Chatsworth. “The only thing that was left with me in that box was my birth certificate, hence the name Fikile Cele and the only known thing of my identity. I was found by my adoptive mom who is an Indian woman and at that point I was adopted as a two-month-old baby.” Cele said her birth-mother did eventually come back to look for her and was granted visitation rights through her adoptive mom. The former Westcliff Secondary School learner said that while it may come as a surprise that she does not understand nor speak her mother tongue, she affirms that it is okay to be different. “I have overcome many struggles in my life with some being that when I was told that I do not belong here (Chatsworth) and with the many illnesses that I also went through as a young child, I learned that with God nothing is impossible. My struggles with my health back then were completely and utterly nothing as you see me today as a much healthier woman but I can assure you that if I had to rely more on that part of my life, you would be surprised as to how I have survived up until this point. I am here to tell you that it is okay to be different, okay to be you and that I am worth it and so are you!” Cele hopes to use her experience in a positive way by uplifting women and advocating for change. “Never apologise for who you are. I believe that as the next Miss South Africa, I can use my power, my self-confidence and greatness to advocate for every woman who has felt broken, felt unseen or unheard, limited or abandoned by whatever circumstances they have encountered in life. I am here to be the ripple effect of change and be a beacon of hope for everyone in my community and for young girls like me,” she said. Cele is in high hopes of pursuing her future studies in child psychology to assist young children who are experiencing challenges in their lives. Cele’s message to Chatsworth residents is: “I hope my story inspires you and I just ask of you to listen more, judge less and allow me a chance to share my story with you and be a part of my journey”.