South Africa has moved to Adjusted Alert Level 4 from 28 June to 11 July, with restrictions designed to allow economic activity to continue, while containing the spread of the virus. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the move on Sunday and promised to assess the situation after 14 days. This comes after the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention reported that a third wave of the Coronavirus disease is underway on the continent whilst South Africa experiences a massive resurgence of infections. Ramaphosa said that the Delta variant which spread like wildfire in India has been detected in five provinces, namely the Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape. He said: “The Delta variant is rapidly displacing the Beta variant, which has been dominant in South Africa until now. It is more transmissible than previously circulating viruses, meaning it is easier to catch through person-to-person contact. It is thought to be twice as contagious as the Beta variant. You can pass it on without even knowing you have it. People previously infected with the Beta variant do not have full protection against the Delta variant, and may get re-infected. The peak of this third wave looks set to be higher than the previous two. We don’t know how long this will last.” Restrictions Gatherings (indoors or outdoors) prohibited such as religious, political, cultural and social Funerals and cremations permitted, not exceeding 50 people. Night vigils, after-funeral gatherings and ‘after-tears’ gatherings prohibited. Public spaces, such as beaches and parks, remain open with no gatherings. Curfew from 9pm to 4am. Non-essential establishments to close by 8pm. The sale of alcohol (on-site and off-site consumption) prohibited. Travel in and out of Gauteng for leisure purposes prohibited except for work, business or commercial travel, transit through airports or transport of goods. If you are currently not in your place of residence, you will be allowed to return home to or from Gauteng. Visits to old age homes, care facilities and ‘congregant settings’ restricted. Restaurants / eateries only permitted to sell food for take-away or delivery. • Schools will start closing from 30 June, and is expected to close by the end of the week. • Contact classes at tertiary institutions will end by 30 June, with limited access to the institutions. Residences will remain open. ‘ • Businesses will continue to operate at full capacity. Staff to work from home wherever possible and non-essential travel and workplace gatherings to be postponed. Vaccinations Registration for 50 to 59 year olds begins on 1 July and vaccination will begin on 15 July. The second stream has commenced with people working in the basic education sector. From 5 July, the third stream will focus on police and security personnel. The fourth stream is through workplace programmes in economic sectors such as mining, manufacturing and the taxi industry. Misinformation on vaccines Ramaphosa said that misinformation is being circulated about the Covid-19 vaccine. “False stories are being spread on WhatsApp groups, on social media, and by word of mouth, claiming that the Covid-19 vaccine is not safe, that it can make you sick, or that it doesn’t work. Please think long and hard before you press share or send and consider the harm you may be causing.“ He said that the scientific evidence shows that vaccines work, they are safe, effective, and save lives. “There is evidence that the vaccines in use in South Africa are effective against the Delta variant. Some vaccinated people may still become infected, with mild symptoms because no vaccine is 100% effective,” said Ramaphosa.