The residents of Wentworth, in the south of Durban, have had enough of the ongoing gang violence and drug-related drive-by shootings which are costing them the lives of their children. United in their mission, the community is taking a stand and demanding that action be taken after many “senseless killings” and drug-related issues have engulfed the area with residents living in constant fear. Tracey Williams of Wentworth Angels, a non-profit organisation, said three weeks ago they had a meeting with law enforcement in the area, who informed them that the station did not have much resources to fight against the rampant gun violence and crime in the area. “Six mothers and a father had met with them to see how we can assist as we are tired of homes being shot at and drugs being freely sold in our community. We were not raised in this manner and we do not want our kids to be. We want our streets back, we want our community back.” According to the community the problems arise from drug dealers wanting to claim turf in Wentworth. Their fights then spill over to the streets resulting in the loss of innocent lives, like that of Brian Captuiex, 55, who was shot and killed recently while outside his home on Reiger Road. Captuiex was fatally wounded, shot in the chest, during the drive-by shooting. Prior to that a 15-year-old was also a victim of a shooting incident. “Our children are dodging bullets day and night. An innocent man’s life was taken. We are wanting justice for the family. I know the family personally and Brian was not an aggressive or violent person at all. He was a pleasant, humble soul, well mannered and respectful. Every Saturday we as the community will take to the streets and protest, we are tired of our people dying innocently,” said Williams. The protests will be held every Saturday from 10am at the K1 bus stop on Austerville Road. Gratitude was extended to NPO, eThekwini South Youth Business, for taking the stand and initiating this programme. Williams said at the initial protest, a memorandum was handed over to Colonel Van Zyl on 19 June and that a response is expected with 14 days.  “We, however, will continue to protest till all weapons and drugs fall. Our kids are blocked from going to school due to all the violence and most of them have left school due to getting attacked on the road to school. It’s heart-breaking to see so many of our youth standing on corners due to turf wars. I stand for change in our community with the youth organisation eThekwini South Youth Business NPO. Wentworth has talented youth and these turf wars are robbing our youth of becoming great leaders to the next generation. Why must families lose loved ones due to all this? If we don’t take a stand now for our youth and our community, what will our next generation have? Nothing. All this needs to stop. Enough is Enough.” The group has also appealed for any assistance possible in terms of water and fruits towards the Saturday protests. All Covid-19 protocols are observed during the protests.