Members of Same Love Support Group Toti have kept busy by celebrating Pride Month, this June, with workshops and events highlighting plights of inclusivity and equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and intersex (LGBTI) communities.  Kim Lithgow, Same Love’s director, said an appalling national spike in hate-crimes, with 10 deaths in the last three months, prompted fellow LGBTI groups to place pressure on the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development to enact and implement the Hate Crimes Bill. She said they held a Virtual Vigil for those who lost their lives to hate and related crime, standing in solidarity with survivors and their families who are in need of support while battling in court for justice. “In this time, we call on religious leaders to show solidarity with the LGBTI communities and condemn violence and murder hate crimes, as it is often religion that justifies homophobia and transphobia in excluding individuals from this space and ultimately fosters unwarranted violence.” Recently, the Department of Home Affairs approached Same Love Toti, and other gender rights groups, to host talks during their ‘Sex Alteration Training Session’ in Richards Bay after reports of officials refusing LGBTI individuals due to misunderstanding and misconceptions came to light. Lithgow said the talks were well received and that they are looking forward to more engagements with officials.“For our members, this means that the transgender teenager can have their matric certificate in the correct name and gender, ready for university or college applications. The transgender adult too can have a driver’s license that correctly depicts their details if stopped by authorities. The same is true for bank accounts, buying cars, property and employment. “Wherever your ID is needed, transgender people are asked ‘Is this your wife’s or husband’s ID?’ or they are suspected of fraud. It is imperative that transgender people have an identity document (ID) with the correct details, and Home Affairs officials play a crucial role in completing the process quickly,” Lithgow said. In addition, Same Love Toti also met with the United States Consulate General, Ann Linnee, to commemorate International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT) 2021 and thanked the international representatives for their continued support. “We are not alone in our fight against violence and ignorance as there are many more people in the background working together towards a safer, more inclusive society. We thank the involved departments and hope to continue successful diversity workshops in the near future.” Same Love will be collaborating with Friends Family Restaurant, and others, to host a variety of events and evenings for families to enjoy as part of Pride Month leading up to their big event on 26 June. The founder said, “Poets, authors and musicians will entertain audiences and we will even be hosting a fashion show! Our aim is to make sure that no-one is alone and that everyone can make their voice heard!” For more information on upcoming events, workshops or to participate in demonstrations and Pride celebrations visit the ‘Same Love Support Group Toti’ Facebook page or email samelovetoti@gmail.com.