A dream to play football in Spain could soon become a reality for one of Oakford’s most talented players following the launch of an U15 tournament in the province.  Founded in 2019 by Mvelo Gumbi, from nothing but pure passion for the love of football, Oakford Blinders have grown from one open division team into four complete under-11, 13, 15 and 17 teams. “Through passion, talent and a love for the game I am proud to say we are the first club to have a young boys soccer team in Oakford. The U15 boys have won their qualifying games for the Hollywood Siyakhula Cup and will be representing the Verulam South African Football Association (SAFA) at a tournament on 2 and 3 July.” Gumbi said the AmaZulu Community Trust saw an opportunity for an U15 tournament in the province as there are currently very limited provincial tournaments targeting that age group. “Together with Hollywood Bets and SAFA we started the Siyakhula Cup. This is the first year this cup will be held. There are 16 teams from around KwaZulu-Natal participating. The winner will get the rotating cup and the best player of the tournament will get an opportunity to go to Spain,” Gumbi added. Every eligible player will be fighting for the top spot and leaving nothing to chance. One of the players hoping to get on a plane to Spain is 14-year-old Asanda Mfeka. The hopeful centre-back said he will be training long and hard to impress the judges at the tournament. “To play in Spain would be a dream come true. Some of the best footballers in the world are from Spain. This is a once-in-a lifetime opportunity and I’ll do everything I can to make sure I make it,” he said.  Mfeka will be up against some stiff competition as those competing for the top spot are hungry to get to Spain. Another hopeful football star is Luthando Bhani, a 13-year-old striker, who said being chosen to play in Spain is what dreams are made of. “I really hope I get chosen. I practise long and hard every day. My role model is Cristiano Ronaldo. I love his tricks and how fast he moves with the ball. Nobody can beat him. I hope to be like that one day.”