Tired of being victims of crime and living in fear of criminals who have been targeting residents in the area over the past few weeks, an angry mob of workers and residents from Sunset Avenue in Woodhurst are alleged to have assaulted one suspect while two others escaped, on Thursday morning. Members of Pinetown Protection Services (PPS) arrested the suspect after he allegedly mugged a patron at one of the shops in the busy residential and commercial area. Security personnel arrived and gave chase and apprehended one of the suspects, while the other security officers gave chase to the two who attempted to flee. PPS Security spokesperson, Quenton Chetty, said the suspects were chased along Higginson Highway and fired multiple gunshots at the security officers who were giving chase. “We were hot on their trail and were determined to apprehend these thugs who have been robbing people who wait for their public or private transport in the mornings and afternoons. There were many recent incidents where these criminals target those who are vulnerable, and the fact that they have loaded guns and were not afraid to use it against us when we chased them shows that they have disregard for the law and that they will harm you to take your belongings.” Chetty said this has become a trend during winter.”We urge all residents to be vigilant at all times so that they can ensure that they do not fall victims to these types of crimes,” added Chetty. Chatsworth CPF chairperson, Jakes Singh, said he urges residents to report all crime, no matter how petty, as police require this information to properly monitor hotspot areas and eradicate crime. “During winter, there is always an increase in crime as the days are shorter and the darkness invites criminals. Those who are unaware or do not safeguard themselves by walking in groups or by showing off their valuables are more vulnerable and susceptible to becoming victims of crime. We encourage residents to join neighbourhood watches and to become more active in their communities so that together, we can drive out criminals,” he said. A report from police could not be obtained by the time of going to print.