Amid growing calls for schools across the country to close, with the threat of the Covid-19 third wave looming, Belverton Secondary School is the latest to close their doors after one of their own tested positive following a party on 16 June that was hosted by another learner. In a statement released by the school on Tuesday, 22 June, it is understood that 23 learners attended a birthday party on 16 June. The statement read: “Should any of those learners test positive, then the parents and siblings will also be tested. The Department of Health requests all other individuals showing symptoms of Covid-19 to call at the Tongaat Community Health Centre to be tested (free of charge). These results (negative) must be produced on Friday morning when learners report to school as per exam timetable.” The party happened amid concerns raised by KwaZulu-Natal premier, Sihle Zikalala, about learners attending parties which had the potential of becoming super-spreader events. Zikalala sited the Rage 2020 event as being one of the events that led to the peak of Covid infections in the province in December. “The current increase in cases is driven, to a large extent, by school and family clusters. We are concerned with the upcoming winter school break due to the fact that our second wave happened during holiday seasons as many people travelled to the province for the holidays. We welcome all the visitors who will be enjoying themselves at our beaches and other areas, however, we urge everyone to understand that we will not compromise on compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Everyone should actually become much more vigilant than before in curbing the spread of the virus. We re-iterate that no events should violate the level 3 lock down regulations. Those who violate regulations will face the full might of the law.” Department of Education spokesperson, Kwazi Mthethwa said schools are given health and safety protocols to advise them about handling Covid-19 situations. Belverton Secondary said the school will be deep cleaned on Thursday and learners who attended the party will only be allowed back on the school premises when they produce negative test results.