Amidst a massive surge in new Coronavirus infections and a growing third wave, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the country’s move to Alert level 3 and tightened measures on movement and gatherings from Wednesday, 16 June. Ramaphosa briefed the nation on Tuesday on the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the average number of daily new infections had doubled over the last seven days, hospital admissions due to Covid-19 rose to 59% higher and the average number of Covid-19 deaths had increased by 48 %. “All provinces are experiencing rising infections with the exception of Northern Cape. Four provinces – Gauteng, Free State, North West and Northern Cape – are officially in a third wave, while others are approaching that point. Positive Covid-19 tests are continuing to rise in Gauteng, Limpopo, Western Cape, Free State and KwaZulu-Natal, with Gauteng being the worst hit, “said Ramaphosa. To curb the rising infections Ramaphosa announced new restrictions: • Curfew from 10pm to 4am. • Non-essential establishments like restaurants, bars and fitness centres to close by 9pm. • Gatherings limited to 50 indoors and 100 outdoors and if the venue is small then no more than 50% of the venue capacity may be used. This includes religious services, political events and social gatherings, as well as restaurants, bars and taverns. • Attendance at funerals and cremations may not exceed 50 people. • Night vigils, after-funeral gatherings and ‘after-tears’ gatherings prohibited. • Alcohol sales from retail outlets restricted to Monday to Thursday, 10am to 6pm (excludes public holidays). On-site consumption permitted up to 9pm. Alcohol consumption in public spaces, such as beaches and parks not allowed. • Masks mandatory in public places. It is a criminal offence not to do so. • Youth Day commemoration, on 16 June is a hybrid event, with reduced number of people physically in attendance, and a virtual address by the president. Ramaphosa reminded the nation that it is 15 months since the declaration of a National State of Disaster in response to the coronavirus pandemic. He said the mass vaccination programme is gaining momentum with almost 2 million people receiving a vaccine dose. The vaccination programme experienced delays such as: • AstraZeneca procured from the Serum Institute of India did not provide sufficient protection against the variant that is predominant in South Africa. • SA affected by shortages in the global supply of vaccines. • The supply of Johnson & Johnson vaccines was held up by an investigation into contamination of ingredients at a supplier factory in the United States. Ramaphosa revealed that the problems with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine have now been resolved. However, 2 million doses that had already been produced are unusable. Johnson & Johnson expects to deliver around 2 million vaccines to South Africa by the end of the month. • SA relies on the Pfizer vaccine, which requires two doses. • The pace of vaccinations has picked up with around 80,000 people a day vaccinated at over 570 sites. • The Aspen plant in Gqeberha in the Eastern Cape will produce new doses, increase production and begin supplying the country within the next few days. • By the end of June, a total of 3.1 million Pfizer doses will have been received. Ramaphosa said that the initial Johnson & Johnson doses will be used to vaccinate educators in schools and thereafter security personnel on the frontline. The number of healthcare workers infected with Covid has decreased. “This is evidence that vaccines work,” said Ramaphosa. He said that the immediate task is to complete the vaccination of all those over 60 years of age. Ramaphosa urged those over the age of 60 to register – whether online, by SMS, by phone or in person.