The community has hailed a prominent businessman for his bravery in helping a resident during a suspected house robbery in Sunford Drive, on Friday, 4 June at approximately 3.30pm. Gareth Naidoo, 24, who was allegedly stabbed by a suspect, defended himself by allegedly shooting the suspect dead. In an exclusive interview with The Phoenix Tabloid, Gareth’s brother Romano and father Glen, who is the chairman of the KZN VIP Group, confirmed that Gareth was involved in a vicious attack. The family shared their pain of having “one of their own come under attack”. They said that Gareth is currently in hospital after undergoing surgery and is in a stable condition. “I’m just lucky and happy to be alive,” Gareth told his mother from his hospital bed. His brother, Romano, said a resident called the KZN VIP Command Centre to report that they heard noises on the property and suspected a thief trying to gain entry. “Gareth is the owner of VIP Medical and Rescue Ambulance Services affiliated to the KZN VIP Group. He was about to do an ambulance inspection a few hundred metres away from the house when the attack took place. He heard the occupants of the house scream for help. “The owners then barricaded themselves in the house. Gareth got to the house and went to see how he could assist. The male suspect jumped at Gareth with a knife and stabbed him several times on his hands. He continued to attack him with the knife on his face and chest area. Gareth used his hands to shield himself from the attacks. Gareth fired shots at the suspect who died on-scene,” claimed his brother Romano. Romano added that the VIP ambulance that was nearby, treated Gareth. “His main arteries were severed and he was bleeding profusely,” he said. In the meantime, KZN VIP had despatched vehicles when the house residents made that initial call. Glen said it’s an everyday situation in Phoenix where the “pharas”* steal cables. “When people are drug crazed, they turn into monsters. Do not treat the situation lightly as these people can become violent. Fortunately, the ambulance was nearby and could help Gareth. I am happy that my son is still alive and I hope this never happens to anyone else. When it’s personal, and it happens to family members, it hurts much harder. “We do hundreds of cases but it does not hurt as much as it hurts now. My son should never have been in that situation in the first place. The only reason he went to the house is because he was close by and he has a passion to help people and save lives. He put his life on the line for someone who he does not even know. Although he heard that armed response officers will be standing off in a minute, he took it upon himself to help someone else. As a family, we thank the community for sending their well-wishes and their prayers. That’s what keeps us moving forward,” he said. Captain Louise Naidoo, spokesperson for Phoenix SAPS, confirmed that an inquest has been opened. “It is alleged that the complainant was in his house when he noticed a male removing water pipes from his house. The complainant then called KZN VIP Security for assistance. Upon the arrival of security officer on the scene, he approached the suspect in trying to stop him. The suspect then withdrew a knife and stabbed him three times on the left arm and the security officer withdrew his Glock firearm and fired a shot towards the direction of the suspect. The suspect was shot on the head and the chest. The suspect died on the scene. The knife that was used by the suspect and the security officer’s firearm were confiscated. The security officer was then taken to hospital for medical attention. The scene of crime was attended by police and law enforcement officials.” *Pharas is a term used to refer to people living in the streets who are sometimes associated with committing petty crimes.