Six families in Steelbridge Grove claim that they are affected by a sewer leak that has been recurring for about 10 years. Residents allege that the municipality has attempted to fix the leak on numerous occasions but are unsure whether the problem is related to the sewer, stormwater drainage system or the water system. They say that the area has an unbearable stench and the problem has affected their lives and properties. Alvin Moodley, one of the affected residents, claimed that the leak occurs outside his gate. “The sewage leak affects all six residents and it occurs right in front of my gate. It is smelly and unhygienic. We have had this problem for about 10 years now and it is worsening. It is a council problem, however, the municipality claim that they do not know where the leak is coming from. They did many tests but they still claim that they do not know where the fault lies.” Moodley alleged that the municipality initially said that it was a groundwater problem, then they said it was a sewer problem and then a kitchen pipe problem. “When there is a water outage in Stonebridge then the leak stops and everything is dry. I have sent pictures of this to the municipality. First they blamed Metro Water, then they said it is a problem at the kitchen pipe and they keep passing the buck,“ he said.   Moodley claimed that the sewer cannot handle the load. “The same contractor has been fixing the leak for years but the problem is not getting solved. When the houses were built approximately 50 years ago the families were small. Now that the families have grown, the sewer load and capacity has grown. The sewer cannot take the load anymore and hence the sewer pipe has collapsed. The sewer system needs an upgrade. My stairs are turning green,” he said. Residents claim that currently there is one line sewer for six families. Due to the ongoing problems they have experienced, residents are now requesting that each house have its own sewer so that if there is a problem they can easily fix it. “We have references and emails on record that the municipality’s Waste Management engineers have been trying to fix the problem but they are unable to. This issue needs the attention of the premier’s office,” claimed Moodley. A resident, who wished to remain anonymous, claimed that he is the worst affected as all the manholes for the six residents are in his yard. “At the moment the digging has commenced right in front of my kitchen door. We have a three-week’s-old baby and an elderly person in the house. The smell is unbearable,” he said. The resident added that it would be better if the sewers are removed from his yard and placed at the individual houses. “My yard is being destroyed. In an emergency we are unable to get outside as the yard is dug up. The foundation is not solid. My driveway was tarred but the municipality dug the ground and damaged the driveway. I spent a lot of money to tar the driveway,” he said. Another affected resident said they can’t extend their house. “The sewer problem has caused damage to the walls and our garage. It cost us money. The stink is unbearable, we cannot breathe. The municipality just poured cement and left,” claimed the resident. Another affected resident said they are unsure where the problem lies, but it stinks like sewage. “We can’t live like this. It has gotten out of hand. We had the same problem six years ago, we fixed it but it started again. The municipality should get to the bottom of the problem and fix it once and for all,” claimed the resident. eThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela said: “Thank you for bringing this matter to our attention. The relevant unit has been tasked to attend to the matter as soon as possible. The City would like to reiterate that the issue of blocking manholes continues to be a problem in the City, this is despite the speed that the City moves with to attend to such blockages. What is compounding our woes is that some members of the public continue to dispose of foreign objects into the system resulting in it to block. The City does receive reports of manhole blockages from time to time and it responds to them but within a short space of time we find ourselves having to go back to square one. We also have a serious concern of our residents who are invading land, who later on connect illegally to our system, with material, which is not compatible with the system, resulting in it to malfunction. eThekwini will never derive any joy from subjecting its residents to manholes that are blocking. For us to be able to win the war against blocking manholes, we need to work together unceasingly by heeding all the calls made by the municipality to residents to refrain from dumping foreign objects into the system.”