Passionate in making a difference through conservation, two Durban North residents, Tyra Bolton and Tanzin Ferrar raised R56 000 for the Rhino Peak Challenge.   The Rhino Peak Challenge is a 21km trail-run up the iconic Rhino Peak in the Southern Drakensberg, where the duo participated on 12 December, and were selected along with 36 other ambassadors. Speaking to the Durban North News, Tyra said the main objective as an ambassador is to raise vital funds for South Africa’s endangered species, a minimum of R10 000 per ambassador. “This 21km trail and route is one of the most challenging in South Africa, with a vertical climb of over 1km and summiting over 3000 metres above sea level (3056m). “Tanzin and I have always enjoyed trail-running and hiking, when I saw that they were looking to select ambassadors for the 2020 challenge, I encouraged Tanzin to apply with me so that we could hopefully do it together. We submitted our motivations as to why we wanted to participate and we were selected to represent one of the beneficiaries –‘Wildlife ACT’. “Wildlife ACT is a registered Non-Profit Organisation in South Africa with a vision to save Africa’s iconic and endangered species from extinction. The Danville Park Girls’ High School pupils said they are both passionate about all animals, wildlife and their protection. “Although we did work hard to raise the money (we appealed for donations via social media, GivenGain, sold raffles for lucky draws etc.), we never expected such a wonderful response from the community, our friends and family. We were so happy and honoured that we could contribute to such a worthy cause,” said Tyra. She said that usually three groups of 12 influential people from the worlds of conservation, sport, business and entertainment are invited to take part in the challenge, however, due to Covid-19, they decided to open the opportunity to 36 members of the broader public to be a part of the Rhino Peak Challenge for 2020. “If you are fit, healthy and passionate about our wildlife then you should definitely consider participating if they allow the opportunity again,” she added.