Netcare has confirmed that a Netcare 911 helicopter crashed along the N3, near Winterton, Colenso on Thursday. The Netcare air ambulance, was carrying a pilot and four healthcare personnel on board when it crashed. The team were on their way from Johannesburg to Hillcrest to transport a critically ill patient to the Netcare Milpark Hospital. Those on board were Dr Kgopotso Rudolph Mononyane, Dr Curnick Siyabonga Mahlangu, Sr Mpho Xaba, ECP Sinjin Joshua Farrance and Mark Stoxreiter. “The whole of Netcare falls silent as we bow our heads in tribute, respect, love and memory of our fallen colleagues and frontline heroes who have died in the line of duty”. There are no words adequate to describe our sense of profound loss and grief at this terrible time. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families,” said Dr Richard Friedland, chief executive officer of Netcare. An eye witness said “the chopper just exploded”, crashing to the ground. Okhahlamba and Alfred Duma Municipality Fire department were called to the scene, as the chopper was still on fire. Fire fighters fought the blaze, while the South African Police Service swept the area as bodies were found scattered along the scene. Witnesses described the scene as gruesome and incredibly sad. “We are profoundly saddened, and our deepest sympathies are with the families and loved ones of our colleagues aboard Netcare 1 air ambulance, which was carrying a pilot and four healthcare personnel on board when it crashed,” said Craig Grindell, managing director of Netcare 911. “We are shocked beyond words at the tragic loss of these healthcare heroes. The details surrounding the crash are not yet clear. We will however issue a further statement once more information becomes available and the next of kin of those aboard have been notified,” said Grindell. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said that authorities still don’t know how the accident happened. ” It is under investigation and we will release a statement once everything is confirmed,” said Herbst. Herbst also said that he is shocked and saddened by the incident and his thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families at this time.