Elders living in isolation and quarantine have been facing the difficulty of losing loved ones, staying away from their family and friends, and adapting to a new lifestyle in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. The stress and loneliness as a result of the Coronavirus has left elders feeling afraid, anxious and alone. For the caregivers who work diligently to protect and ensure the wellbeing of 1800 elders, the added responsibility of caring for those who cannot be placed in hospital beds leaves Tafta carers feeling overwhelmed and in need of a little kindness.
In an effort to create awareness around loving and supporting the elderly and those who care for them, Tafta is hosting a sponsorship campaign as a build-up to the month of love, and they want their supporters to be first in line to show parents, grandparents and frontline workers just how much they mean to them! “The Love is Life campaign will encourage members of the public and potential donors to sponsor a Covid Care-kit filled with essentials to assist elders in isolation and quarantine, as well as frontline staff who have been caring tirelessly
for our elders to ensure they do not succumb to the Coronavirus. With these kits we hope to equip every Tafta elder and carer with the right tools to fight against both physical and emotional consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Femada Shamam, CEO of Tafta said. She said with a locked down Valentine’s Day on the horizon, there is no better time to extend a loving hand to those in need and shower them with a little kindness. “Instead of skipping V-Day because of the lockdown, why not open your heart to a stranger this year, and make one of our elders or carers your ‘secret’ Valentine in honour of the one you love,” Shamam said. Shamam said, Tafta will deliver to one of their elders a kit containing a book to fill the quiet hours of isolation, a chocolate to put a smile on a lonely face, a personal message of encouragement, hand sanitizer, a face mask and natural immune boosters such as lemon, ginger, garlic, eucalyptus and Vitamin C. “Kits designed for our carers include all the above, plus additional PPE items of which our caregivers are required to dispose and replace three times daily, and a self-care “time out” voucher to see them through a particularly difficult patch. This covers the cost of a stand-in carer to take over for 30 minutes while they take a much-needed breather,” she said. Shamam said that they are calling on the public to help them fight the virus by making sure their elders have access to recommended nutrients and personal protective equipment to boost their immune systems and keep them protected. “Individual and corporate donors are also invited to donate any of the items included in each kit. We hope to keep the Coronavirus out of our homes by providing 1800 Tafta elders and every frontline carer with a Covid Care-Kit as soon as possible,” said Shamam.