A Covid-19 crisis is playing out at state medical facility, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH) in Phoenix, as frontline workers are under siege. Many workers are falling victim to the deadly virus while the medical facility is bursting at the seams with Covid-19 positive patients. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, acting chairperson of the board at MGMH, Mervyn Reddy said that they are experiencing a crisis at this facility. “The hospital is under severe strain currently with an influx of Covid-19 positive patients. We have lost four healthcare workers to the virus and we have 16 who have tested positive and are in isolation, currently. It is a grim situation,” he said. Reddy said that the public is streaming in with positive cases and the hospital is filled to capacity. “As it stands, there are about 100 positive Covid-19 patients in the hospital. The situation is dire and we need the community to wake up and take note of the reality check. Adhere to Covid-19 measures and stay safe. More especially, stay at home and sanitise,” said Reddy. According to Reddy, since the start of the pandemic, close to 180 hospital staff members have been infected by the virus and about 1 500 Covid-19 patients have been ventilated and oxygenated. “Staff at the hospital are experiencing huge challenges in the midst of this pandemic. Healthcare workers are trying their best to cope with the spike in Covid-19 cases. We are in the process of installing 45 oxygen points in the hospital to cope and assist with the demand for oxygen where patients can be treated and stabilised.
We have converted many wards to accommodate Covid-19 patients and we have a ‘persons under investigation’ ward (PUI) for patients with symptoms that are tested and awaiting their results. We cannot allow patients to wander around and infect other wards or be infected, hence, we have taken the necessary precautions to curb this, by isolating them,” said Reddy. He said that the surge in positive cases has put the hospital’s resources under strain and the demand for beds is high. “We have undertaken to defer elective cases to Osindisweni Hospital in Verulam so that severe cases can be urgently attended to while we also constantly monitor the bed capacity. As soon as beds are available, urgent cases are given priority. “Amidst the challenges faced by MGMH, we are also dealing with personal protective equipment (PPE) issues where there is a shortage of such and healthcare workers at the hospital are terrified as humans are to be in the frontline fighting the pandemic with inadequate PPE. They are afraid for their lives and that of their families,” added Reddy. He said that requisition was made to the Department of Health (DOH) but no response was received as yet. “The hospital and I have undertaken to plead with private donors to assist with PPE sponsorships for our healthcare workers. “We believe that their health and safety is a priority in this fight. We have most recently lost two staff at the hospital, Mr Masimulu and Sister Sharmaine Govender, our night shift manager. We mourn deeply for both lives lost due to the pandemic. We extend our condolences to their families. Sr Govender served for 15 years at MGMH and is hailed a heroine for her contributions to the fight against COVID-19 and healthcare,” Reddy said. He said that the Covid-19 situation in Phoenix is life-threatening. “We need the community to be responsible and strictly adhere to health protocols and lockdown restrictions. Lives are being lost daily. These are people we know. Family members, friends, associates and community leaders, both young and old have succumbed to the virus. The message remains as vital as ever; stay at home and sanitise. Wear your mask. Do not loiter and visit. It is said that we move the virus. So stay in your house and give healthcare workers a chance to do their best instead of flooding hospitals with more cases. We need the community to pledge their support to curbing the virus by adhering to all Covid-19 protocols,” said Reddy. Meanwhile, with all of the negativity aimed at MGMH regarding patient-care and treatment, a Phoenix resident offered a different version of her Covid-19 stay at the hospital, recently.
Rashnee Jaikissoon said: “I was admitted at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital and I was diagnosed with Covid-19 pneumonia, at that point in time. I honestly gave up hope thinking of being treated at Gandhi Hospital especially after hearing about all the negativity that comes from others about the medical facility. “To my surprise I was admitted immediately due to my condition. The love, comfort, care and appropriate treatment that I received kept me alive and I am forever grateful to every healthcare worker at MGMH. Thank you all and God Bless each one of you for saving my life. The Phoenix Tabloid contacted the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health for comment but none was received at the time of going to print.