The search for a missing girl, 3, from Osindisweni, is plagued by conflicting details, after the toddler was found at a neighbour’s residence where it is alleged she was ‘touched’ by a man who rescued her from the bush. According to Prem Balram, head of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), the minor went missing in Osindisweni on Tuesday night and was located the next morning. “Members of Reaction Unit South Africa proceeded to the area on Tuesday night and assisted the community to search for the child who went missing after she was scared off by fireworks. The child was believed to be hiding in a dense bush behind her home. The SAPS Search and Rescue K9 Unit was called out however, attempts to locate the girl were unsuccessful. The search was called off due to poor lighting,” Balram said. He said that Rusa members returned to the area at 7.45am on Wednesday morning to resume the search. “The child was located in a neighbour’s yard by a member of the community. She was emotional and barefoot. When questioned regarding her whereabouts on Tuesday night, she informed her family that she was hiding in a bush when she was located by a man. He led her to a room in her neighbour’s house where she slept on the bed with him. She led Reaction officers and members of the community to her neighbour’s residence where she was allegedly carried by the man through a broken window. Her sandals were located in the room,” Balram added. He claims it could not be confirmed if the child was raped however, she had stated that an unknown man had touched her. “The child said that the man had climbed out through the broken window and fled into a bush that morning. She did not provide further details,” added Balram. He said that the owner of the house explained that the room belonged to her brother however, he had left the area last month and is now residing in Mayville with his family. The woman further claims she was not at home for most of the night as she was assisting the community to search for the child. Investigations are continuing.