A Phoenix couple shared their Covid-19 experience to shine some positivity and give hope to those who are affected directly or indirectly by Covid-19. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Alicia Koopman, 31, said: “On 2 January my husband, Sheldon Koopman, 31, came home with news that his work colleague which he had transported to work, tested positive for Covid-19. We immediately isolated. We stressed and panicked because my mum, grandfather and nephew were in the same house. Over the night, my husband’s temperature and fever increased dramatically.” “As a precautionary measure, we went to get some tests done on 3 January and waited for the results. On 5 January, I insisted that we get a retest done at a different place while we waited. The results came back on 6 January- my husband tested positive and I was negative. I wiped down the entire house with disinfectant and kept spray bottles of Savlon mixed with water in all our bathrooms (this was to be sprayed after every use). In our room I had wiped down everything with disinfectant and continued washing the beddings every second day,” said Koopman. “I stayed up through the nights and days, monitoring his every symptom. Some nights Sheldon would shake uncontrollably, and the next he would have difficulty in breathing, he experienced a running tummy, body pains and loss of taste and smell including other symptoms. I would also run a bath for him every day with Savlon and salts to help with the body pains. Being scared of anything happening to him, I would find myself sleeping around 4 or 5am every morning,” she said. Alicia said she created a routine to help with the recovery process. She prepared breakfast at 8am which included a fresh salad and an egg, tumeric and hot water and vitamins. She made Sheldon steam with Vicks and clove, walk around at least for 15 minutes outside followed by bed rest where he would sleep on his side or on his tummy with a pillow in between his legs. At 11.30am she prepared lunch which included a fresh salad, dose of acc200 and she sat with him in the sun for 15minutes followed by more bed rest. The Koopmans would have supper at 6pm that included lemon and hot water with ginger with vitamins before steaming. “Every meal was eaten in big quantities and everything that he did I did with him to keep my immunity. The days seemed longer and time seemed to slow down. We prayed together and I read bible verses to him. Some days I felt like I would drop but I needed to keep going for him. “We had heaps of prayers and calls coming through from our work colleagues, family members and neighbours. It was so encouraging to fight, knowing the support system is right there,” said Alicia. Sheldon made a full recovery after 14 days. The Koopmans have retested and are Covid-19 negative. Alicia said: “We are always hearing of people not surviving Covid or fighting this alone but I’m holding onto faith as small as a mustard seed and we are all going to fight this.” “Our message to everyone out there is hold on, do not panic, do not get overwhelmed just take every hour and every day one step at a time.
Keep a strong mind, be brave and keep a positive attitude. Also, there is absolutely nothing wrong with telling people or making people aware that you have tested positive. Let’s help save lives and protect each other. The fight isn’t over yet and Covid isn’t a joke but it will be defeated,” said Alicia.