Durban singer and songwriter Donavin Seagreen is a man on a mission. He works with various artists in and around Durban placing them at different venues. Seagreen spoke to the Durban North News about his music career, the dynamics, and the importance of introducing new people. Durban North News (DNN): What genre of music do you sing?
Donavin Seagreen (DS): I’m not specified by one as I do round about 600 songs as each venue has different clientele and needs DNN: How and when did you discover your talent?
DS: I started singing when I was in school and was a member of the choir as a soloist until I finished school. DNN: What led you to the entertainment industry?
DS: After, having worked in several types of industry within sales, I decided that I was hating my career and this couldn’t be something I wanted to do forever. I therefore, resigned and decided to put all my eggs in one basket and pursue my passion. DNN: What do you enjoy about the industry?
DS: The friendships I cultivate and being surrounded by like-minded people that enjoy the challenge of creativity.
DNN: What do you find challenging about the industry?
DS: Convincing people to try our services at Big Bear Entertainment but coming from a sales background, it is still a challenge I enjoy. The clients I have, have been with us for many years and that s a testament to the right set up for their industry. DNN: What has been one of your pleasant moments in the industry?
DS: There have been a few, such as, playing on the main stage at several music festivals performing with some of South Africa’s top artists, but from a personal view it was when I was the main lead for KZN Philomonic Orchestra at the ICC and for FNB. DNN: What has been one of your greatest achievements?
DS: At this moment, it is the ability to pursue my life in a way that fulfills my soul by playing music and having the ability to set up an infrastructure for new and upcoming artists, where they can also choose their goals. DNN: What inspires the songs that you write?
DS: I am quite a dark lyricist and when writing songs, I tend to look at how the current situation is in my life and also those around me. DNN: How do you think you can impact people’s lives through your music?
DS: My music has afforded me the opportunity of creating a space for other musicians to apply their talent and create a sense of achievement for them to have regular shows as well. DNN: As a musician, how do you think the industry can be opened up for rising and upcoming musicians?
DS: By setting up a platform and a circuit for them to apply their talent in a way that slowly increases their ability to perform and become more comfortable with what they do. It is important to nurture you. DNN: How do you think the industry is coping with adapting to virtual shows that have been introduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic?
DS: It’s a grasping-straws situation because as an artist, you got to change the way you do business by having a space where you live off the kindness and generosity of strangers. It is heart-breaking that all artists are now almost regarded as non-essential workers but music is the place you go to restore your mental well-being. DNN: As an individual, do you think you are coping with the new adjusted lockdown, and how can they be improved?
DS: Well, not really because after the pandemic, every artist in South Africa and probably the world will be one of the major groups on the back foot of society trying to pay off money that they owe and also trying to convince people to renew their faith in live performance because the hospitality industry and music industry walk hand in hand.
It is a situation where most artists will lose everything they have, that they have worked for most of their lives. They will sell all their equipment and all their worldly belongings just to put food in their family’s mouth. It is more than heart-breaking, it almost feels like an end to creativity because according to government, we are worth less than any other individual in the county. The Covid-19 virus is attacking all groups of society but a lot of groups within that society are rarely taking precautions to ensure the safety of themselves and others and to be painted in the same brush as those that don’t respect the lives and livelihood of their neighbours is unfair. When we do performances we are in a controlled environment such as restaurants who have Covid-19 protocol which shouldn’t affect an artist singing there by themselves, away from the people. DNN: What advice would you give to the newcomers in this industry?
DS: Make 100 percent sure that you are thick-skinned and be prepared to face 98 percent rejection just for that 2 percent of hope. To survive in this industry, you need more than talent, you need to be goal-driven and be prepared to knock on doors and sell yourself as a product, knowing that not everybody will want your product, so be prepared for constant rejection. If you can face this main obstacle you might have a 10 percent chance of just surviving doing what you love to do because 99 percent of all artists have to have a second form of employment just to get
by.