Families dealing with the a death of loved one due to Covid-19 are often unsure about the bureaucratic processes surrounding the funeral service. The level 3 lockdown regulations limits funerals to a maximum of 50 people. Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings, including “after- tears” gatherings are not allowed. Wearing of face masks, social distancing measures and sanitizing is compulsory. The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours. Clive Moodley, director at Pinetown Funeral Services, said the bereaved family should be patient, and understanding, during these unorthodox times. He said: “All deaths have to be treated as possible Covid-19 cases so that we adhere to state laws and keep our staff safe. Currently we’re trying to handle clients services as quickly as possible so that our storage facilities are not overwhelmed, however busy crematoriums and lack of doctors to sign certificates have exacerbated this issue.” Moodley said: “In the case of natural deaths, families are allowed to have the body for one hour in their home before it must be moved to the crematorium or cemetery. In the case of a Covid-19 death or positive swab result, bodies are put in three layers of body bags as well as having their coffin shrink-wrapped, the bereaved are only allowed drive-by funeral services. The body cannot enter the home but must remain in the hearse before being taken to the cemetery or crematory.” Families handling a loved ones death should receive from the funeral parlour a death certificate, doctors certificate, and in the case of cremation a cremation certificate, as proof of services rendered for the deceased. Apart from the usual funeral costs, an additional cost is added in the case of Covid-19 deaths, to treat the body before cremation or burial. Authorities are legally obligated to disperse funeral attendees if they are found contravening the lockdown regulations. Muzi Hlengwa, president of the National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (NAFUPA), said: “Undertakers work under extremely difficult circumstances. We’ve had clashes between undertakers and families wanting to open coffins, using numbers to their advantage. Ultimately the conduct of Covid-19 funeral services are for the safety of those who attend.” Hlengwa said parlours that didn’t adhere to Covid-19 funeral regulations would be held accountable. He said: “If the person is guilty, depending on the statement imposed on the parlour, they can either be kicked out of the association or rehabilitated to correct their behavior which will be assessed before they are allowed back in. If they are found contravening these laws it should be reported to KZN Health and Metro environmental units.” Moodley also noted the difficulty of pleasing an eclectic cliental base who often deal with burials differently. He said: ” While some cultures prefer a quick funeral following someones death, others prefer to wait a week or more. This poses a challenge. In the case of fast burials families must wait until Covid-19 swab tests and doctors certificates are complete, both can take 12-48 hours each depending on queues. However, bodies cannot be kept for a week plus as there is no space in our facilities. We do our best to accommodate the family but we have to observe Covid-19 protocols. Working from 4am to 10pm is taking strain on our own families but we know the importance of giving loved ones a respectful sendoff.”