The Covid-19 restrictions have put a lot of things on hold including one of the most exciting events of the year in line with National Dress Up Your Pet Day. This day is celebrated on 14 January where pug owners dress them up and take pictures of their furry friends in costumes and visit some of their friends. La Lucia resident and volunteer for the Pug Rescue South Africa, Ravith Singh said that this is indeed a sad year for fury friends. “This year, we won’t be holding any events because of Covid-19. Usually, at the beginning of the year we host exciting events where we invite all pug owners to celebrate with us and have an outdoor experience where lots of activities are involved,” she said. Singh said that she became involved with Pug Rescue SA when she adopted her first pug Pablo from the organisation. “He was a sad traumatised pug that had been surrendered to Pug Rescue. Since adopting him, he has brought such joy and laughter to our home and rules the roost at home. Therefore, always choose to adopt rather than shop and give a much needed home to a rescue,” said Singh. She said that pugs can be expensive when it comes to veterinary care and it is advised that you invest in medical aid for them. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, all fundraisers were put on hold and Pug Rescue SA are now reliant on donations and sponsorships to survive.
The organisation is totally dependent on fundraising and donations to ensure that our rescued pugs have a sanctuary where they are well cared for. “Our rescues receive the veterinary care they require, they are fed good quality food twice a day and they sleep on warm, comfortable beds. We also have caregivers on duty to see to their every need from 6am to 9pm daily, seven days a week,” Singh added. She is assuring anyone who wishes to adopt that pugs are natural cuddlers and known to be great family dogs that are very playful and affectionate with children. “Also, because of their mouth shape, pugs have trouble delivering an aggressive bite and so are considered to be on the more kid-safe end of the breed spectrum,” she said. Singh advices the public to consider adoption rather than to buy pets as this may reduce the number of unauthorised pets. When you adopt, you save a loving animal by making them part of your family and open up shelter space for another animal who might desperately need it,” she said.