Ambitious, God-fearing, artistic and outgoing is how Kim Solomon, a born and raised Durban-based, Sydenham artist best describes herself. Solomon shared her journey in the music industry with The Springfield Weekly Gazette. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG):
Who exactly is Kim Solomon?
Kim Solomon: I am a singer, composer, author and music arranger as well as a senior fashion and textile designer. SWG: What do you do for a living?
KS: Senior fashion and textile designer SWG: What do you enjoy most about being a musician?
KS: Being able to express yourself through song, to inspire people, encourage and empower them through your music. It evokes emotion. SWG: Tell me about your first release single and what inspired this hit?
KS: “Why Wait” was my first single as a solo artist. I wrote it myself. It was inspired by personal experience in a toxic relationship, waiting for your partner to love you the way they should. Why wait for heart that will never answer, all you have to do is walk away. SWG: If you could change anything about the industry, what would it be?
KS: That musicians are taken more seriously. People want you to sing or perform but many people are not willing to pay. Every professional is paid for a service they provide so why is music seen as something people should just do for free. That musicians had more platforms when it comes to music to not only showcase their talents. That music competitions would follow through on their promises when it comes to recording and artist development instead of holding competitions for TV ratings and forgetting all about artists afterwards. Where are our idols after the competition as opposed to overseas idols who are big artists years later. Do we even remember the names of ours? SWG: Tell about the biggest obstacle in your music career and how you managed to overcome it?
KS: The biggest obstacle is having people trying to mould your identity musically and physically just to sell music. I have learnt to stay true to myself, my sound and my beliefs not just as a person but as an artist. SWG: Which musician moguls have you collaborated with or wish to collaborate with?
KS: I have worked with Ernie Smith, Natalie Rungan, Shaggy from Freshly Ground, TRO in my younger days. Elaine, Black Coffee, Shekinah, Youngsta Cpt and NastyC are just a few artists I would like to collaborate with. SWG: What skills do you think will help in a music career?
KS: Executive, rhythmic, tonal, creative, singing on pitch. As well as being resilient, flexible, open-minded and determined. SWG: What type of singer would you classify yourself as?
KS: A blend of soul, R&B and mainstream pop. SWG: What first got you into music?
KS: As a child I enjoyed singing along to the likes of Whitney, Mariah etc. But it was my high school teacher that actually pushed on stage and I never looked back from there, singing at community variety shows, fundraisers, private and corporate functions to winning a few music competitions and recording contracts as well. SWG: Is your family musical?
KS: No, I wish they were, it would be amazing. SWG: How do you balance your music with other obligations?
KS: I find time for music outside of my normal working hours so the two never clash. SWG: What advice and motivation can you offer beginners in the industry?
KS: Dont be a perfectionist and over-analyze what you are doing, learn to enjoy being present in that moment whether its gigging, recording, live performances or just jamming. Remember to just enjoy yourself, remember you wont always get things right the first time and thats okay, its all part of the process and your journey as a musician. Learn from other musicians, instead of feeling like you are under threat and seeing them as competition. There’s enough room for everyone at the table. SWG: Who inspired and continues to inspire you to make music?
KS: As a child I have always wanted to share my voice with the world, it was never about fame but just about passion for sharing
with people the gift God gave me. What continues to inspire me is honestly the feeling music gives me. Along with listening to the many gifted artists we have. SWG: How do you feel the internet has impacted the music
industry? KS: It has its positives and negatives. Positives is that it allows artists who are not signed to labels to be discovered. The negatives is the downloading music for free online that is basically robbing the music industry blind. SWG: What is the best advice you have been given?
KS: That talent is not everything, many people are talented but not many people are persistent and hard-working and that’s what makes all the difference. You have to start somewhere and keep working at it daily. SWG: What is your creative process like?
KS: It varies. Sometimes it starts with an idea or a message I want to convey, sometimes it starts with a beat or sometimes just a word that resonates strongly. It is always different. Some songs write themselves and others need lots of work. SWG: Is there a hidden meaning behind any of your music?
KS: For now all the songs have a message that is conveyed directly but going forward there will be some with underlying messages that cause the listener to think deeper. SWG: What image do you think your music conveys?
KS: Self-worth, empowerment, faith, uplifting. SWG: What are your long-term career goals?
KS: It is to use my music as a medium to make a change positively not only to individuals but our nation through the messages it will convey. Much change is needed, morally as well as much healing as a nation that has been so divided for all the wrong reasons for so many generations. Its never too late to change our thinking and interactions which will change our nation as a whole. SWG: What are your immediate music career goals?
KS: To write more, gig more, and to work more with local artists. I am not interested in titles or recording deals but more enjoying the freedom of expression that music gives and the ability it has to influence and change not just atmospheres but lives too. SWG: What is your advice to others who wish to follow in similar footsteps?
KS: Know who you are and what you stand for and believe in. Be true to yourself, people will learn to respect you for it. Align yourself with the right people, don’t get sucked into the trappings of drugs and bad habits that many succumb to. Nurture your talent by working on it daily. It’s like a muscle, the more you work it, the stronger it gets. SWG: What are you most passionate about?
KS: Music. I never feel more alive than when i am singing. I can’t explain it. The world and everything else fades away. It is my happy place.