South Coast businesses in the tourism sector have suffered significant financial loss following intermittent beach closures and the alcohol sales ban, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown regulations. “The first lockdown had killed all our resources and just about our entire business over the course of five months,” said Gary Coetzee, owner of Gary’s Horses in Amanzimtoti, who offers equestrian beach rides since 2002. With the amended level 3 lockdown regulations all beaches are closed to the public and recreational users with the exception of subsistence fisherman who own a permit. Romy Wenzel, Sapphire Coast tourism spokesperson, said that pubs, chalets, beach artists (sculptors), water parks and the broader entertainment industry (i.e. caterers, sound and lighting and event planners) are all feeling the weight of the beach closures. Wenzel said: “We don’t really know when things will return to normal, it’s a waiting game with our president. Businesses have had to find alternative ways to survive or risk closing completely.” Bianca Banilsen, manager of Ollies Pub & Grill located on Amanzimtoti lagoon, said since their main income is from liquor sales, most of which are bought from beach-goers, business has been slow. “Our food, daily specials and gambling machines are barely keeping us afloat,” he said. Coetzee said although business picked up during their busy season in December, new restriction laws prevented him from taking clients on beach tours, despite already having a valid permit and adhering to social distancing laws. The retrenchment of two staff members and forfeited horses, too costly to maintain, has left Coetzee questioning the restrictions, he said: “The approval by metro and governments gazetted laws to allow fishermen onto a beach with a valid license is totally unfair. I applied for mine last year and it’s still valid to date. I too generate a living from beaches, much like some fisherman, and adhere to social distancing laws. So why restrict me?” According to KZN Health statistics, as at 21 January eThekwini District has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the province with 145 350 confirmed cases and 2978 deaths whilst 128 371 people have recovered. uMgungundlovu District has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases with 30 818 confirmed cases, 983 people have died and 24 367 people have recovered.