Grace Family Church (uMhlanga Campus) is organising prayer meetings outside the buildings of Netcare uMhlanga Hospital to show their support and appreciation to frontline workers. Over the past week, members of the church prayed for staff and patients from 6.30am to 8am, encouraging workers arriving for day shift, and those leaving from night shift. Deb Mun-Gavin, counselling psychologist and director of Grace counselling (a ministry of Grace Family Church) said: “It is such an honour to be having these prayer meetings for hospital staff. Looking deep into the eyes of these remarkable human beings and seeing God’s spirit move was like walking on holy ground. It is beautiful and healing.” Mun-Gavin said that Grace Family Church has been running a number of initiatives during lockdown, including #Care4CovidCarers. She said that the aim of this initiative was to help all frontline healthcare workers in South Africa by providing pro bono online psychological counselling for them. “The gratitude, appreciation and response from both frontline workers and hospital management has been enormous,” she said.  Sara Nayager, general manager at uMhlanga Hospital, was thrilled with the support for staff. “The management and staff at our hospital are grateful to have Grace in our lives. We couldn’t do what we are doing without the prayer and counselling support. “The past week has been uplifting and we would like to thank Grace Counselling and Grace Family Church for the prayers, healing, vision, courage and wisdom that they have given us.”
Mun-Gavin said that members of the church are also donating care-packs which will include bread, milk and treats for the frontline workers to show their appreciation. “This virus has called our frontline workers above and beyond their call of duty, the least we can do is find ways to support them,” she added. If you would like to contribute to care-packs for the staff of Netcare uMhlanga Hospital contact 031 560 5500. Any healthcare worker who would like pro bono online counselling with a psychologist can email counselling@grace.org.za.