In light of the current second wave of Covid-19 infections, the aQuellé Midmar Mile race committee has made the decision to move the event out by one month to 13 & 14 March 2021. ” The committee is aware of the inconvenience that moving the event may have on some entrants, however the need to ensure the safety of our participants and their extended families must take priority in these challenging times,” said the committee in a statement. “Safety is the highest priority at the aQuellé Midmar Mile,” said race director Wayne Riddin, “and this year we obviously have many additional considerations with regard to Covid-19 and minimising the risk of transmission at events. We are also respectful of the pressure that hospitals and medical staff are under at this time. Time on duty plus the possibility of a medical emergency at the event would only place further demands on medical staff which we would all agree is not necessary.” Riddin added that current regulations do not allow for swimmers to train in open water, and many are struggling to find a pool while dams, rivers and beaches remain closed to swimming. The postponement to 13 & 14 March will give entrants extra time to prepare for what will be the 48th Midmar Mile. Together with input from representatives from KZN Wildlife and the safety committee, the race committee is investigating the feasibility of holding the events over more than 2 days. Should this be both practical and provide an extra safety element, decisions will be taken swiftly and communicated immediately. “All decisions will be taken in line with regulations in place and ultimately to reduce risk to all participants,” said Riddin, “and we cannot become complacent within the current situation. 2021 aQuellé Midmar Mile will be a very different event to previous years, but we are confident we can deliver a safe event space for participants to enjoy one of the highlights in their swimming calendar. We feel taking this decision now is best for everyone involved as we plan the detail over the next few weeks.” The committee said some further changes may still need to be made, including the possibility of holding the event even later on in the year.