The ongoing Ugu water crisis has been likened to second degree murder by aggrieved residents who feel that their health is being compromised during this terrifying Covid-19 pandemic. This comes in the wake of the Ugu District being declared a Covid hotspot by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The water crisis has been raging on for an extensive period of time and residents feel their cries are falling on deaf ears. Speaking to the South Coast Weekly Gazette, Democratic Alliance Ugu caucus leader, Leonard Ngcobo said: “It is correct to assume that the current situation with Ugu water is likened to secondary murder. Clearly Ugu has shown that they do not have the political will to fix the problem in terms of water provisions. This crisis has been ongoing since 2016.
Internal squabbles within the majority party have trickled into Ugu Municipality and resulted in the situation we all have to deal with now.” The Ugu District Covid statistics as per the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health on Thursday saw the community with 12, 422 confirmed positive Covid cases and 317 deaths. This has sparked fury within the community who took to the Ugu Complaints Facebook page to air their grievances. Referring to the Covid-19 positive cases and subsequent deaths, a resident commented, ‘When you give people no water to wash their hands this is called second degree murder.’ Ngcobo said: “In December alone people have been without water for roughly 40 to 60 days in the coastal sweep however the situation is worse in Harding where the dam is just below 10 percent and in some traditional rural areas people have been without water for almost a year. The protocols of Covid-19 are not possible to adhere to without water; we need to wash hands and ourselves regularly to avoid transmission of the virus. But how do you do that with no water?
It also ruined our local economy on the South Coast which heavily relies on local and international visitors. The hospitality industry is suffering and numbers are low. The knock-on effect of having no water for such long periods of time further complexes and compounds these issues. The Ugu district was declared by the president as a Covid-19 hotspot, so the situation is dire.” “We want to reiterate our call to the MEC Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Sipho Hlomuka to place Ugu District Municipality under section 139 and assign capable, qualified administrators to help turn things around. We are also calling on the Department of Water and sanitation to ask Umgeni water entity to make the bulk of water provisions and restriction decisions left to Ugu district municipality. “We think that these two proposals will help alleviate the distress of the current situation. If no action is taken now we are heading for a total collapse of Ugu district municipality and may see numbers rising in terms of Covid-19,” Ncogobo added. Residents voiced their fury at the situation on social media and said they feel abandoned. “It’s torture and mentally exhausting,” a resident shared. (sic). “I do not understand why the government does not step in,” another resident commented. (sic)
“It is like we just don’t exist. The forgotten people of UGU,” a community member stated. (sic)
Doug Rawlins, Ward 18 councillor and DA caucus leader for Ray Nkonyeni Port Shepstone, said: “The water situation in our ward has not gotten as bad as others.
Water outages in our area come about as a result of load shedding that causes pumps to stop working. With no generators to kick in reservoirs don’t fill up quickly enough and then the demand outweighs the supply. The Ramsgate, Pumula, Hibberdene and multiple rural areas surrounding these wards are without water. Without water, people are unable to sanitize fully so that is a huge contributing factor to Covid-19 cases in the district.”
A fed up resident commented: “…my son has open wounds of cancer…I do his dressings weekly…this Monday i took his bandages off and he had maggots eating him away…NICE UGU…..very nice…hope karma strikes her wand on your useless brains…and do something about the water…toilets need water as well to flush the muck away…”.(sic) The water war rages on as embattled residents continue to cry over their dry taps.