Operation Bobbi Bear is committed to helping those most vulnerable as they enter a demanding 2021. The foundation, which is dedicated to both housing and assisting sexually abused children, has been running for the last 20 years and is making an appeal for donations to function optimally this year. “Dealing with HIV and TB patients on a daily basis has prepared us well ahead of Covid-19 because in our line of work universal precaution is always, and has always, been used. We are fortunate enough to have both years of experience with all our staff being trained and God’s grace on our side,” said a grateful Eureka Olivier, director at the Bobbi Bear Foundation. With eight staff at their main facility in Doonside the team are dually operational at satellite stations based in Umlazi and Isipingo using cleverly re-used containers. Currently twelve children, with more coming in daily, are being cared for with visits from volunteers and donators being limited to keep everyone safe from the virus. However, Olivier admits that Covid-19 has significantly reduced donations, which are solely relied on for operational functions, from usual sponsors who are feeling an economic pinch. She said: “People are afraid to donate food, because they believe it might inadvertently cause themselves or us to contract Covid. It’s sad that these extremely needed donations are not received because of misinformation, something we have encountered in our line of work before the pandemic. We need the community’s support now more than ever.”
Despite still being inundated with fresh rape cases, lost or abandoned children and families in dire need the foundation has still managed to host successful events to raise funds. A ‘potjie kos’ competition, a ‘hit and run’ Christmas party to keep everyone safe as well as multiple fundraisers ranging from a car wash to a virtual jazz concert from University of KwaZulu-Natal musicians. Sadly, much more is still needed to make up the donations lost in the past year. Olivier said: “2020 was undoubtedly the craziest year for us. We faced Covid, burst geysers, broken taps, windows and aircon’s. We even had baby kittens dumped in our yard by their mommy cat, she obviously knew this was the place to be. Whatever challenges we face make us stronger and keeps us motivated.” The Bobbi Bear foundation team deeply thanks the extended KwaZulu-Natal, the community and businesses, for helping them take care of the nation’s most precious resource, the youth. “We are nothing without donations, so thank you to all those who support us and give from their hearts. I cannot express how much gratitude and thanks I have for all those who see to our vital work being carried out, it truly is beautiful and needed more in 2021.” Food vouchers, fresh fruits, vegetables, yogurt, meat, clothing, toys, bedding, handymen and volunteers are all that the operation desperately requires. For drop-off donations visit 48 Seadoone Road in Doonside or call Bobbi Bear on 031-903-2424. For more information visit www.bobbibear.org.za.