Observing the way the Covid pandemic has been ravaging communities, security company, PT Alarms and Isipingo Community Police Forum (CPF) joined forces to initiate a Covid Community Assist Programme by providing a free delivery service to families in quarantine who require much needed essential grocery and medicines. Isipingo CPF chairman, Aiden David, said: “This initiative is a non-profit effort to help Covid- stricken families in the Durban South and Port Shepstone communities, during this pandemic. I was approached by the head of PT Alarms, Strini Govender, who had a burning desire to reach out to the community in these troubled times. We saw the dire need for assistance and decided to provide the community with a lifeline.” Spokesperson for PT Alarms, Trishen Govender said: “Families that are under quarantine are requested to send a list of their essential perishable or non-perishable items to 062 673 9642 which is a dedicated line for the Covid assist programme. The operator will forward the instruction to purchase all noted items and the controller will then notify the family of the cost of these items. A vehicle has been assigned to assist every Covid positive household in our community that calls in for the service.” Govender said the essential items will be delivered to the family’s gate and payment for their items only can be preferably done via electronic funds transfer (EFT) as the gravity of the pandemic prompts contactless transactions. “The project is gaining momentum and has also been launched at our PT Alarms Port Shepstone branch . This non-profit initiative will allow every family that is under quarantine to be able to survive in such circumstances,” he said. If there are any Covid positive families that are unable to afford their Covid essentials while being under quarantine please contact Aidan David on 0670222505 for alternate arrangements to be made. The service will be available only between 10am and 2pm, daily. “PT Alarms and Isipingo Community Policing Forum will not allow any Covid positive family to become destitute or forgotten because of this pandemic. Together we can overcome and survive Covid-19,” David said.