As more industries try to keep their heads above water, others are consumed by a wave of debt brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. Businesses in the liquor and entertainment industries are down to their knees as rely heavily on people spending time together. The tourism industry which encompasses other industries, like entertainment and catering has also taken a huge knock. Mukesh Manohar, tavern owner said: “The first wave had brought us to our knees, the second one has crippled us. Some people are working from home, others can function without the need for consumers however we need people to come in and buy our products. The cost of living is increasing and we cannot keep up. There is no income for us and no government funding. I understand that we have to follow regulations and abide by government’s laws, however for small business owners there are not many options.” With 25 years of experience in the entertainment industry Vishal Ramash a disc jockey (DJ), said modern times are the most difficult he has ever experienced. “Before the pandemic, working as a DJ at functions or events was a lucrative business. With weddings, birthdays and other celebrations it was a decent source of income to sustain a living. We had a fair number of functions in a month,” said Ramash. After the lockdown, Ramash said he had no work and no income for seven months. To make matters worse he had to and is still refunding clients. “It is indeed very sad where some big event companies had to close its doors, as well as venues in the hospitality industry. This was inevitable with these lengthy lockdowns as you have to pay rent, some have full time staff, some have to pay for gear/ equipment and with no income one would not be able to keep the business afloat. We have sold off gear and are still in the process of selling stuff to sustain a living. In the entertainment industry, even with an adjusted level three lockdown we cannot work,” said Ramash. He said if the pandemic continues and people cannot host events the entertainment industry will come to an end. Ramash recalls when the industry was thriving:”I was playing bhangra music at the Hilton hotel. It’s popular at parties, and today the Hilton, due to this pandemic is closing its doors temporarily. If the world’s sickness doesn’t stop, this is going to be the position of all DJs and entertainment venues. People don’t realise how big a fraternity the entertainment industry is and how many people it affects. Sadly enough our industry is first to be affected because of the lockdown and the last to open up.” Meanwhile, Thys Jans Van Rensburg, general manager of a holiday resort said tourism makes up nine percent of the South African economy. “What many people don’t realize is that the tourism industry encompasses other industries, like entertainment and catering. Tourism is also the sector that brings the most revenue to rural areas like the Drakensburg. It umbrellas a network of companies,” said Van Rensburg. He said that tourism is also one of the very few industries that can provide employment to people who lack education. Van Rensburg said: “It provides on-the-job industry experience where people can earn, develop themselves and grow. Since the start of the lockdown he said the industry has taken a hugh knock and this leaves companies with no choice but to retrench. “The government support to the sector was wholly insufficient. One needs to question the need to spend R10 billion on the South African Airways bailout if there will be no tourism left for visitors to come to.” Tania Ajams article titled ‘More eyes on Covid-19: Perspectives from Economics’, addresses the impact of Covid-19 on the economy from an economics perspective. She said : ” The Covid-19 shock is unprecedented and very different from other global financial shocks. For the first time since the 1918 Spanish flu epidemic, the South African economy has been hit by real supply and demand shocks that have struck both domestic production and global supply chains, and simultaneously depressed demand in both the domestic and global economies. Lockdown halted consumption (example in retail) to promote social distancing. Productive activities in most sectors ceased with consequent loss of jobs, workers furloughed or salaries cut – all of which induced a massive demand shock and loss of business and consumer confidence.” (sic)