South Africa’s Covid-19 death rate has soared to 41 000 (and counting) – with Durban also being hardest hit by the spate of coronavirus casualties as we note the demise of notable people this week. In one of the darkest weeks of the year-long surge of the coronavirus scourge, the ruling elite of the African National Congress lost Jackson Mthembu, from the 1970s student generation to Minister in the Presidency; jazz legend Jonas Gwangwa; Abdul Bhamjee – aka Mr Soccer – to frontline medic Dr Arthi Ramkissoon. We salute these change-makers, visionaries, frontline workers and ordinary people: JACKSON MTHEMBU (9.6.1956 – 21.1.2021): As President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered a stirring eulogy in memory of his friend and ‘’gentleman of politics’’ – Minister in the Presidency – at the Sacred Heart of the Roman Catholic Church in Mpumalanga on Sunday, amidst the lilting
hymns of struggle songs of fallen foot soldiers, Hamba Umkhonto, and the handing over of the ANC flag to his grieving family. In death, citizens have been reminded to fight the deadly virus without spreading it. The popular parliamentarian and anti-corruption crusader’s Covid-19 death drew condolences and praises from all sectors
of the spectrum – including opposition party leaders.
JONAS GWANGWA (1938-2021): The post-millennial-apartheid generation may wonder why the death of Jonas Gwangwa was so important to the national media and government. The last of the trombonists, Gwangwa, linked with legendary artists Miriam Makeba, Sonny Pillay, Hugh Masekela, and other exiled musicians who raised the revolutionary cultural movement’s flag against apartheid with world-class jazz music and songs and live performances, passed away, aged 83. He was awarded the Order of Ikhamanga. But like many veterans of sound and struggle, especially Masekela, they die disillusioned with the ANC-SA’s obsession to having everything within the post-1994 ferocious pursuits for blood money, luxury goods and high lifestyles. ABDUL BHAMJEE, aka Mr Soccer (1938-20.1.2021): Love him or hate him, Bhamjee rose from Bekker Street in Johannesburg and became one of the most colourful cricketers and football el-supremo. Having been shown the door from the non-racial SA Soccer Federation for taking a commission from a sponsorship; he got the ball rolling for the breakaway from professional soccer’s black bloc to launching the National Soccer League with Kaizer Motaung and Cyril Kobus. The new 78 000-seater FNB Stadium in Soweto was a big stamping ground for football’s flamboyant PR guru – the megaphone-microphone praise-singer of a new soccer culture that attracted fans and million-rand sponsorships. In 1981, as FIFA was on the cusp of re-admitting blackballed SA to the World Cup, Bhamjee was charged and convicted for a R6, 5 million fraud. Until his death, he professed his innocence, saying his misdemeanor was a 10% commission to offset his loss-making Fordsburg’s sports goods shop because he gave more of his time to promoting the NSL. He published the Fed Fan magazine for the Federation Professional League with Thanga Padayachee, also his business partner. DR ARTHI RAMKISSOON: Passionate about medicine and community health service delivery over 20 years, she joined the casualty list of the ongoing cycle of coronavirus. Friends on Facebook highlighted her contribution to the KZN Children’s Hospital, and described the doctor as ‘’single-minded focus and dedication led to the resurrection of the only free specialist children’s hospital. This pandemic has shown me many things – the fragility of our healthcare system, the nature of how some people behave when they are under stress and the deep losses,’’ wrote one of her many admirers. ‘’Gone too soon,’’ wrote lawyer Deborah Samuel. NANCY CHETTIAR (1958-2021): Ahead of the vogue of black economic empowerment, progressive businesswoman Nancy Chettiar, aged 63, was ahead of the pack. Formerly from Merebank, she worked in the glass fitment industry and launched her own business in Durban’s North Coast-Umgeni Road and lived in Riverside. Her brother Roy Chettiar, who was in the business for 30 years, confirmed she died of heart failure and Covid-related complications last week and was cremated at the weekend. CHRIS PILLAY: SA Bodybuilding Champion, whose beefcake physique drew attention at the gyms in King’s park and Moses Mabhida Stadium, also succumbed to Covid-19, his friends confirmed. LARRY KING: The media world is paying homage to legendary broadcaster, who as CNN iconic anchorman, interviewed the creators of the new SA Nelson Mandela and FW de Klerk, having breakfast with both and described Cape Town as San Francisco; and how Madiba peered through Prison 5 from Robben Island for 25 years. King passed away, aged 87, and was treated for coronavirus in the USA. The Brooklyn-born rookie got into radio and TV and then became the biggest draw card of one million viewers on Ted Turner’s fledgling CNN for 25 years – making way to Piers Morgan – then going digital and joining Russian TV (RT). CNN and Larry King were a staple diet for journalists like Marlan Padayachee in the 1980s. Hamba Kahle, (go well, farewell in isiZulu) comrades, compatriots and citizens – MARLAN PADAYACHEE