EThekwini Joint Ratepayers Association that has recently launched is about community activism and taking ownership of the communities. Imtiaz Syed, chairman of eThekwini Secure said that he has over the years been called into many ratepayers meetings and found a difference between the different agendas of ratepayers varied across the way and it all depended on what issues to prioritise. “We believe that ratepayers in all areas need to be functional and in doing the work that needs to be done by speaking to the municipality and ward councillors the way they need to be spoken to and with a clear understanding and direction of what it is that they need to do. With that in mind we have decided to conceptualise the eThekwini Joint Ratepayers Association.” Syed said that the association speaks to having autonomous bodies which create an environment where in people from different backgrounds can speak to their ward councillors directly. “What we found is that in many areas, we find ourselves in a space of being
co-ordinated. Through best practicing, we never necessarily have all the answers, however, there are leaders out there who do have the answers and I think we have taken it upon ourselves through this platform to say let us all speak to one another and get a clear understanding of the issues faced and develop solutions.” He said that every community faces challenges and the level of challenges is based on how quickly it is responded to. “We currently hold out our hands like begging bowls and speak to the municipality and ask them for assistance. I need us to bring change to that mindset. “Municipality and departments within the municipality are basically all state-owned enterprises which charge consumers for a particular service and in doing so, they are supposed to provide a service. Therefore, we should not be begging for it, we should identify what it is we pay for and how do we go about making sure those services are provided,” Syed said. He added that the association will be a think tank for all ratepayers to understand, analyse and problem- solve the issues faced in communities.