Members of the Sydenham Save Our Children (SOC) Committee mourn the loss of a leader and active team member Eugene Charles Manuel Correa who succumbed to Covid-19 on 2 January. Speaking to The Springfield Weekly Gazette, Veronica Lawler, member of the SOC and close friends with the late Correa described him as a man who always shied away from the limelight yet always played a vital role in the upliftment of the community. “Eugene Charles Manuel Correa born to Manuel and Thereasa on 27 May 1961, in Everton Road, Sydenham, was one of twelve children. The passing of our beloved Eugene has crushed the hearts of many. The most kind-hearted gentle soul, Eugene created happiness indescribable to all those who knew him. He was compassionate and caring and was always willing to assist in the upliftment of the less fortunate,” Lawler said. She said that Correa was a dedicated member of the SOC committee and during the lock down period, he went beyond his call of duty to assist wherever he could. “Eugene assisted in the shopping, parcelling and delivering of 1000 food hampers, as well as distributing masks and sanitizer for each learner in five schools within our community. He was always motivating and supporting the team. He assisted with the initiation of the Knight Road Park Cleanup as well as all SOC initiatives.” Lawler explained her and everyone who knew the late Correa bond with him as “unique”. “We each had a unique bond with “Neighbour”, as we so fondly called him. Every morning he would shout over the wall, “Neighbour”, whether it be for a quick conversation, last night’s curry or just a good old laugh. He always ensured that we had a bright start to the day. We love and miss him more than words can express. Lawler and the SOC extended their deepest condolences to Correa’s family. “We pray the Almighty grant them the strength and comfort they need to get through this trying time. Our beloved Eugene, an Angel gone too soon, we shall never forget your loving nature and hand work. God really sent down a blessing when He sent you.You were a bright light in the darkness and your light shall reign on. At SOC we will ensure to carry on your legacy and try our utmost to keep the light of your spirit burning. Rest in peace beloved ‘neighbour’,” she added.