 Advanced Life Support Paramedics spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said the second wave of infections is far worse than the first, “It is highly contagious. We are treating people daily. People do not respect the lockdown. Even at level 3 there is no regard for safety. There are no beds available and there’s a great demand for oxygen. We are battling to keep up.” Jamieson said a higher lockdown is needed to curb the spread of the virus. As some private ambulance services pull out due to the inability to keep up with the mass casualties some continue to solider on. Gareth Naidoo, the spokesperson for KZN VIP said that the overwhelming demand for oxygen has put a strain on suppliers who are also trying to supply to those in the private sector this sometimes leaves ambulances that need to restock waiting for about two to five hours before being able to properly help those in need. “If an ambulance transports a patient from a primary scene to a hospital, there is a waiting period of two to six hours at the hospital, oxygen tanks are depleted. There is no compensation by medical aid for any time after the ambulance is at the hospital, a private ambulance only gets paid for the transportation of a patient nothing further. Medics, doctors and all other emergency medical services (EMS) workers are extremely exhausted through this time. EMS workers are testing positive and are dying. The workload is uncontrollable and we need more assistance from government,” said Naidoo. Naidoo also said that from what he has witnessed there are no specific trend in mortality, he said: “Underlying conditions or not it is affecting everyone. Unfortunately chances of survival are minimal due to hospitals being under severe strain by the second wave of Covid-19. At the moment your best recovery would be at home, medicate, isolate and be positive in your mind-set to have a speedy recovery.” Chairperson of the Islamic Medical Association, Dr Ebrahim Khan said the health industry has been affected in numerous ways. Khan said: “There are too many cases and not enough hospital beds. This leads to people not getting admitted to hospital and having to resort to home treatment. Some are seeing the benefit but many need to be treated in hospital.” Khan said before the lockdown there had already been a shortage of medical staff. The impact of the second wave has left many doctors, nurses and other medical professionals deceased or in isolation putting an even harder strain on the industry. Another contributing factor is the poor supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) and oxygen. Khan said: “I received hundreds of calls from people asking where they can get oxygen from but the supply is so low and many people need it.” Khan’s views on citizens’ respect for the
lockdown is also very troubling. He said: “Level three was good as it held some restrictions and still kept the economy going, however we need to move to a higher lockdown. Apart from easing the strain on healthcare workers it will also show people the seriousness of this disease.” Mervin Reddy, acting chairman of Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Phoenix, said 16 staff are currently infected and two have passed away due to the disease. “Doctors are stressed, staff are overworked and there is a shortage of oxygen. There is also a shortage of PPEs. There has been a delay from government and we’ve made an appeal for donations of PPEs. People require treatment and we don’t have oxygen nor oxygen pumps,” he said. Reddy said the community also needs to play their part. He said: “From the tests we’ve done every second person has the virus. Please stay at home, wear a mask and sanitize. If one person gets infected they can pass it to everyone in their family.”