A Phoenix family is fortunate to have escaped unharmed from a fire that gutted their home as they waited for firefighters to respond and watched helplessly while the flames devoured their 48-year-old dwelling, in Bridgevale Crescent, Rydalvale, on Friday night. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Sharmaine Pillay, who resides at her dad’s property said it was like a nightmare unfolding before their eyes. “My son,19, and my niece,5, walked up stairs and quickly alerted us that there was a fire in the room. In a short space of time, the fire spread and we basically fled from our home with the clothes on our back. We sat in our vehicle and watched as the fire engulfed our home and all our belongings slowly became ash,” said an emotional Pillay. Her dad, who owns the home, Sam Arnachellan, 67, got into his vehicle and drove to the fire station where he virtually had the firefighters following him to his property in the hope of saving something of his home. “Neighbours activated their panic alarms and we called the fire station. My dad felt so helpless so he drove there and brought the firefighters to our premises. We are grateful to our neighbours and community members who tried their best to assist with the fire by dousing the flames with buckets of water. Sadly, the fire spread rapidly and only the shell of our home is left,” said Pillay. The family is now residing in an outbuilding on the property. Their neighbour’s home was also affected by the fire. Upon news of the fire being shared in the community, non-profit organization based in Phoenix, Buzme Ashique Panjatan Al Ashrafi (BAPA) rushed to the aid of the displaced family. Spokesperson for BAPA, Muhammed Carrim, told the Phoenix Tabloid that their organization reaches out to humanity and not religion. “Bapa believes in assisting the community irrespective of religion, culture, race or ethnicity. The family approached us and we were the first to respond to their plea. During these difficult Covid times, we strive to lend a hand to those in need,” said Carrim. According to Carrim, there was load shedding on Friday night coupled with a powerful storm that could have contributed to the fire. “When power was restored, it is believed that there was a power surge which caused an electrical fault. This led to the mattress catching alight in the room and the fire spreading rapidly. The family of 10 managed to make a quick escape but unfortunately, their home could not be saved,” said Carrim. Carrim commended the community and neighbours for acting quickly and rallying around the family in their dire need. Bapa has initiated a relief aid project to garner assistance for the family. “We need to ensure that this family can get back on their feet. They are at a loss right now. They are trying to find a way forward after this epic disaster,” said Carrim. Pillay said her parents toiled for their home. ” My dad has lived there for 48 years. He is heartbroken. He refuses to leave and stay with family. We cannot leave him at this time so we are roughing it out in a confined space. It was painful to watch our home go up in flames. Our entire lives burnt to ashes in that fire. Our personal documents, memories, sentimental belongings and our valuables perished in the blaze. Now we have to build from scratch during these life threatening times. We are grateful to Bapa, our neighburs and the community for the support and compassion extended to our family. We are indebted to you,” said Pillay. Ethekwini Fire Department Division Commander Bheki Hadebe from the uMhlanga offices confirmed the incident. He said: “We received a call at 5.26pm. The Phoenix fire department was the first to arrive because Bridgevale Crescent is near Phoenix. When they got there, the upper section was already ablaze because the fire started from the bedroom. At this stage it is still unclear what started the fire. No injuries were reported.”
Any donations to help the family rebuild their home and lives can be directed towards Bapa chairperson, Sabir Sheik who can be contacted on 083-788-3340.