The first 80 metres of the newly built uMhlanga boardwalk was recently completed and opened to the public. The project which took almost three weeks to be completed starting from 24 November last year is home to a lot of wildlife species. The community-focused and funded project aims to enhance the area’s environmental integrity and provide a lovely ‘walk-in-the-trees’ experience for locals and tourists to enjoy. Approved by Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife and KZN Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (KZN EDTEA), the project’s initial funding of R345 000 was raised by community-minded stakeholders, businesses and contributors. Brian Wright of the uMhlanga UIP said: “We need a further R5,7million to complete the boardwalk and donors can rest assured that funds will be strictly governed and disbursed by the uMhlanga UIP non-profit company which has a long and proud tradition of serving uMhlanga Rocks. The UIP is rallying local businesses, residents, visitors and the public at large to get behind this wonderful addition to uMhlanga Rocks experience and make donations to realise the vision for everyone’s enjoyment.” Made from recycled plastic, the raised, wheelchair-friendly boardwalk’s design will provide viewing decks overlooking the beach and lagoon and formalised access points from the boardwalk onto the beach. Wright said that the infrastructure will be managed and maintained by the uMhlanga UIP. “Once the boardwalk is complete, visitors will safely be able to experience the amazing coastal forest life while having negligible environmental impact on this incredible natural asset,” he said. Other important benefits of the boardwalk include preventing further frontal dune damage allowing for natural regeneration of degraded areas, unlocking tourism and employment opportunities and relieving congestion on the promenade. He said that the long-term plan is to build an environmental education centre to host nature-based activities including guided walks, canoeing, a bird hide and children’s activities. Wright added: “This initiative will improve and enhance this fantastic natural space which is right here on our doorstep while allowing for an amazing experience for the public. We call on all businesses and the community to pledge their support with donations to help us complete it and further enhance the uMhlanga experience.” To make a donation or for more information, visit their website: https://umhlangauip.co.za/site/.