Chatsworth residents are bracing themselves for what may be the most difficult three to four weeks ahead following a major interruption in their water supply. On Friday, 8 January, the eThekwini Municipality informed residents of the western and southern areas of Durban, that the interruption was due to technical challenges faced in Northdene 3 pump station. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini spokesperson said: “The municipality has encountered technical challenges with regards to the operations of Northdene 3 pump station. It was discovered that all three available pumps at Northdene 3 pump station have failed resulting in no water being pumped to all downstream reservoirs.” It was further announced that the lead time to commence with repair work at the pump station was three to four weeks. Affected areas included Klaarwater, Shallcross, parts of Chatsworth, Savanah Park, Welbedacht East and West, Montford, Risecliff, Arena Park, Moorton, Crossmoor, Woodhurst, St Wendolins, Luganda, Demat, parts of Marianridge, parts of Queensburgh, Nirvana Hills, Enkoseleni and Mawelele. This news sparked fury among the affected residents who raised concern that a water crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic was unacceptable. Pastor Selvan Govender, local leader for the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) in Chatsworth, said that he was with a water tanker distributing in the Crossmoor area till midnight on Saturday, 9 January. Govender said he was concerned that the water crisis could lead to a possible super spread of the Covid-19 virus due to residents flocking to water tankers to ensure that they receive an ample supply for the night. “I was asked to accompany the tanker by Julian Moodley, the chairperson of the Crossmoor Civic Association, who I serve alongside on the executive committee. The desperation of accessing water over-shadowed the fear of the deadly Covid-19 virus. Ratepayers, who are often overlooked in a time of need and somewhat neglected as the formal sector in Crossmoor, did not care about protecting themselves and instead concentrated more on the water. At that point residents went without water for two days,” said Govender. The water drive saw a perfect synergy with Overport’s eThekwini Secure, Active Citizens Coalition and Chatsworth bodies. Seceral trucks loaded with bottled water were sent to Chatsworth after an appeal by the organisations, and the community delivered. A resident, Krish Pillay, said that he was disgusted by the way the formal settlements of Crossmoor were treated. “Whenever we are in need, we cannot get assistance from our ward councillor. The elderly, the fragile and the un-well residents suffered without water and we still were not told a firm answer on when water will resume,” he said. Mahendra Lillkan of the Shallcross Crime Forum said that with the high number of Covid-19 positive people in the area, it is a major battle to follow the protocols that will aid in a speedy recovery. He said: “Patients are advised to keep themselves well-hydrated and to wash their hands very often. Then there is also the question of hygiene like bathing and using the toilets. What about the elderly and the sickly?” Lillkan said that the community felt like they were being ignored by the municipality. “A water tanker was sent out around 12pm on Friday but ran out of water before it could serve more than five roads. We were then advised that the driver is going back to refill but will only be back after 4pm due to shift change. It is clearly evident that we, as ratepayers, are being totally ignored. It is very disturbing that there is no urgency in getting the problem fixed and I know for a fact that although we have no water, we will still receive the normal astronomical bill at the end of the month,” he said. Lillkan said that community members got together the previous night, after being without water for over 36 hours prior to Friday, 8 January, and arranged a private tanker to fetch water from the Springfield depot. They delivered water until the early hours of the morning and the cost was borne by the community. Irate resident, Nilesh Maharaj said that KwaZulu-Natal should learn from other provinces that have faced droughts and handled the situation better.
“I am familiar with the infrastructure in Cape Town and even when we had a water shortage, there was never a day in which our taps ran dry. Compared to KZN, the people are dealing with half-truths exposed to media by the councillor who claims that Shallcross has received water and yet the ratepaying residents tell a different tale. All this just amounts to poor service delivery,” said Maharaj. Montford councillors confirmed that although the water crisis was a massive blow for the residents, one of the most common complaints they received from residents was that the water tankers allocated to them was of little to no help. Ward 77 councillor Anoop Rampersad said: “It is unfortunate to say that the municipality has ignored the private sector in my ward. It filled me with much joy to see that community leaders within my ward took the responsibility of servicing the residents by procuring private tankers to distribute water. It is not their job to do so and yet they left no stone unturned in ensuring that as many people could receive water,” he said. He said that there is alleged dishonesty and disarray on the municipality’s behalf when they call in to enquire on the whereabouts of their allocated tankers. “When I called in to enquire about the tanker that should have been in my area, I was told that it had already been delivered but not into my care. Tankers conveniently make their way into the informal settlements first and then to ratepayers homes late at night. It is unacceptable,” said Rampersad. Ward 73 councillor Ronnie Pillay said that it was unfortunate for people to go an entire two days without water. “Each councillor is given two tankers for their entire ward and some of the tankers are getting hijacked before it gets to our residents,” he said. Despite the hardship endured by residents during this crisis, acts of uBuntu and togetherness were shown throughout all the affected areas with individuals and organisations allowing residents to collect water free of charge. The National Indian Congress of South Africa (NICSA) is among the multiple organisations lending a helping hand. Thivian Padayachi, NICSA’s media liaison officer said: “A dedicated WhatsApp group called NICSA Water Crisis was created, and in co-operation with the DA’s Nicole Graham and the IFP’s Les Govender provided vital information on the status of repairs, as well as exact locations in Chatsworth that were not being supplied by eThekwini water tankers. NICSA used Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram to also communicate residents’ emergency water requests and information and status reports. With the help of Ricky Naidoo’s Venk-Pac’s trucks and Jo-Jo tanks and flo-bins, and with the assistance of several other generous sponsors and businesses, more emergency water deliveries were undertaken.” Along with NICSA, organisations such as eThekwini Secure and eThekwini Outreach, the Unit 6 and Unit 9 Musjid, Queensburgh Mosque, Darul Uloom Ashrafiya, Sunnyvale Primary School, Habibya Musjid, Shallcross Baitul Hamd, Medina Butchers as well as a host of other businesses, petrol stations and other religious groups assisted in securing water for the community.