Sihle Zikalala, the KwaZulu-Natal premier said that even as the province goes through a dark cloud, he is confident about the silver lining that is coming up in the form of the Covid-19 vaccine. Zikalala was addressing the media on Sunday, 17 January and was accompanied by Ravi Pillay, the MEC of Economic Development, Tourism and Environment Affairs and Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, MEC for Health. Zikalala said that during first wave of Covid-19, the government thought they had seen the worst when they spoke about being “in the eye of the storm”. However, what the country is seeing now is far beyond that. “We are witnessing death on a catastrophic scale that has never been seen in living memory. Covid-19 is leaving a trail of lives that have been shattered beyond anyone’s comprehension. Everyone is now living in fear that they, or their loved ones, friends and colleagues might be next,” Zikalala said. Zikalala said given the brutality of the second wave of Covid-19 and its associated variant, the government is concerned about the late presentation of patients to healthcare facilities. “We are noting that people over- rely on homemade recommended solutions such as steaming and use of traditional approaches. While this may be part of our arsenal in this war, we appeal that if people test positive, they must try and reach health facilities on time when means could still be done. Patients are presenting when vital body levels are low and this is worrying.” Zikalala appealed to citizens to act with speed when they notice Covid-19 symptoms, such as fever, dry cough, tiredness, loss of taste, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, and loss of speech or movement. “Far too many people are responding late to these symptoms, and arriving at our healthcare facilities when it is simply too difficult or impossible to save them,” he said. He said that many are sceptical of being admitted to hospital for various reasons, including that they will not be able to receive visitors. “But it is much better to be in a hospital when you are sick, because help is at hand when complications set in. You can be given oxygen if you’re struggling to breathe, and/or receive other forms of medical intervention. Do not delay in seeking medical attention. Go and get screened and tested, so that you can be attended to timeously,” he said. Zikalala said that KwaZulu-Natal continues to rank number one in the country in terms of the number of active cases. Cases are very critical in monitoring the pace of the pandemic. The infection rate continues to increase particularly in the following districts Ethekwini, Umgungundlovu, Uthukela, Amajuba, Zululand, Umkhanyakude, Umzinyathi . “There are days where we have seen numbers come down slightly but we are not treating this as a trend as yet, due to the fact that the new variant is bringing surprises. As they say one swallow doesn’t make a summer,” said Zikalala. He said KZN is planning ahead based on the dates for the arrival of the vaccine, as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Zweli Mkhize, the Minister of Health. “We are putting in place a plan that will ensure that we roll out vaccines faster when they become available. Our starting point is education and awareness, and debunking the myths that unfortunately surround the vaccine because, for us, this will be an
all-important race to save lives.” He said that testing and screening capabilities are being increased and vaccination sites in all the districts are being readied. The Provincial Command Council will present the full plan in the coming weeks.