Starting from the month of January until mid-April, Goby Environmental Project has set out to educate and enlighten the fight against coastline pollution and reduce the number of foreign objects making their way into the sea. The project that was officially launched on 8 January will promote recycling waste. The project, symbolised by a five metre fish structure, launched in 2019, aims to address the issue of plastic waste on the KZN coastline, while educating children and families on the importance of reducing, reusing and recycling waste and removing plastic waste from the beaches. Endorsed by UNICEF South Africa, FIFA Beach Soccer Worldwide Foundation, Durban Regeneration Project 2022 and others, Goby addresses the broader UN Global Sustainable Development Goals and facilitates priority sport development interventions for children, including the making of sports equipment from re-purposed plastic. Recently, the Goby team engaged with pupils from 49 primary schools in the Umlazi, Isipingo and Umbumbulu districts introducing Goby and the impact of plastic on oceans and environment, with emphasis on solutions to plastic pollution plus safety protocols for Covid-19. Vaughn Bishop, founder and director of the Goby initiative said: “I believe that play in every form is the right of every child. Safe and inclusive play and sports are tools for improving children’s lives. They contribute to health, child development and foster peace and tolerance. Above all educating families on the importance of reusing, reducing and recycling plastic waste is vital.” Bishop added that Goby has partnered with the uMhlanga UIP to create awareness around plastic waste management and get the public involved in being part of the solution.  Dewet Geldenhuys, manager of the uMhlanga UIP Precinct said: “We are committed to waste management and awareness, specifically around plastic waste on our beaches. We encourage uMhlanga residents to ‘feed’ Goby with plastic when heading down to the beachfront and let’s be part of the change, not the problem,” said Geldenhuys.