KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala has issued a stern warning discouraging individuals in declaring that they have ‘beaten’ Covid-19. In his address on Sunday, 17 January, Zikalala said that such behaviour is reckless and in some cases insensitive to those who are in mourning after losing loved ones to the virus. He said: “Such statements are dangerous in a sense that they create a false sense of security that implies that when people recover from Covid-19, they will not contract the virus again. We believe this is reckless because there is a growing body of scientific evidence and living examples that prove that it is possible to get re-infected.” The premier also raised concern about patients presenting themselves late for treatment. “Given the brutality of this second wave of Covid-19 and its associated variant, we are concerned about the late presentation to healthcare facilities by patients. We are noting that people over-rely on home-made recommended solutions such as steaming and use of traditional approaches.” He said while this may be part of our arsenal in this war, he encourages that if people test positive, they must try and reach health facilities on time. “Please do not delay or wait until your health condition has deteriorated,” said Zikalala. In the latest trend analysis, the premier confirmed that KZN continues to rank first in terms of the number of active cases and that the province contributes 21 percent to the country’s total number of cases. “Quite notably, the eThekwini Municipality has contributed 44 percent of the reported deaths. The median age for the deaths was 62 years and more than half of the deceased were female amounting to 54 percent,” said Zikalala. It was also determined that the most common recorded comorbidities among the deceased were hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cardiac diseases and renovascular disease infections. With a recovery rate of 76 percent, Zikalala said that only a united front can help in beating the scourge of the coronavirus pandemic. He said: “We have far surpassed the peak of the first wave. Let us continue to avoid super-spreader activities. If we can mount a united front against this virus, and adhere to all non-pharmaceutical interventions in fighting it, we can begin to make a dent against the second surge that is causing so much destruction and pain. Let us remember those who have departed and keep in our thoughts and prayers all of those who are in mourning, so that they may find the strength to overcome the difficulties that are confronting them.” Zikalala urged people to wear face masks when going out, and wash hands regularly with soap and water or alcohol-based hand sanitiser and maintain social distancing.