Members of the Sri Vishnu Kutambhakam (SVK), Religion Without Borders, braved possible Covid-19 infections to treat children in Tongaat, recently. The drive saw about 150 party packs comprise of books, toys for girls and boys between the ages of two to 10, sweets, chocolates, chips and cold drinks distributed to children. The organisation also donated fresh meals. Vishnu Govender, the organisation’s founder, said that the objective of the initiative was to uplift the spirits of the young people in the area especially during the pandemic. “We also provided each child with two varieties of cakes. In a time of doom, gloom and danger of the Coronavirus, my members and I risked our safety to bring joy and hope to the children,” he said. This was a pilot project that Govender started this year in memory of his childhood when his father earned a salary of R37.50 a month employed by a Tongaat company in the 1970s. Govender’s father clubbed in his finances and provided all the children with Christmas hampers comprising of one cream bun, an icy soft drink and a packet of sweets. Govender said: “Why do you need to be pleasant within? The answer is self-evident. When you are in a pleasant inner state you are naturally pleasant to everyone and everything around you. “No scripture or philosophy is needed to instruct you to be good to others. It is a natural outcome when you are feeling good within yourself. Inner pleasantness is a sure-fire insurance for the making of a peaceful society and a joyful world.” He said that one’s success in the world depends essentially on how well you harness the prowess of the body and mind. “So, in order to achieve success, pleasantness has to be the fundamental quality within you. Above all there is substantial medical and scientific evidence today that your body and mind function at their best when you are in a pleasant state. My hope and wish is that all those who wish to serve our society tomorrow are in a state of inner pleasantness,” said Govender. SVK is a faith-based organisation that has provided services to communities across the province since 1982.The organisation also provides assistance to places looking after residents who are unemployed, retrenched, suffering from substance abuse and other factors that cause social-ills.
Explaining the organisation’s plans for this year, Govender said that they want to provide food and clothing hampers monthly for the community, as well as a potential hamper drive for Easter. For more info, or to assist with the drive, email vishnugovender2@gmail.com or call Vishnu Govender on
032-944-3039 or 083 532 2054.