From Riverside to Rivonia, amidst the heartbeat of Chatsworth, signposts activist-attorney Siven Samuel’s journey’s end. As South Africans edged towards the final day of a horrendous year plagued by the Covid-19 virus pandemic, the close-knit communities of Durban received another death notice through coronavirus-related complications-legal champion Siven Vasavan Samuel suffered a heart attack and passed away. On New Year’s eve, social media platforms like WhatsApp broke the shocking news of the death of Chatsworth’s best known defence lawyer and socio-political crusader. His daughter, newly-admitted attorney, Tymara Ketusha Samuel, now part of the family-owned Siven Samuel and Associates, confirmed her famous father’s passing away as his beloved country registered one-million coronavirus infections and 28 000 deaths ahead of the festive year-end bitter-sweet celebrations. We woke up to the tragic and sad news on social media that community personality Siven Vasavan Samuel – attorney, sportsman, anti-apartheid activist, Mandela 1994 election host, ANC election candidate – is no more with us. Who was not touched by this gentle giant – a community lawyer with passion and compassion? From soccer to indoor football to volleyball, this sporting legal eagle made a monumental mark – and to the community of Westcliff and Florence Nightingale Drive, Chatsworth, SVS was the go-to-lawyer until he relocated his offices down the road. Inspired by his stoical grandparents who are credited for building the first Hindu temple in Riverside, a community that were resettled here after the 1860 Indian sugar cane labourers were freed from their indenture, Siven ensured that this socio-religious culture was transported to the sprawling new township of Chatsworth, where Indians were relocated under apartheid’s Group Areas Act. The extended family set up home in Westcliff (Unit 3). “I always yearned to become a soccer star, but my father warned me that injury would affect my future career and I chose to become a lawyer,” Samuel told me as he set out to establish his law practice. Samuel remained loyal to this bustling inner-city suburb until his untimely death. His legal office is a landmark in this busy suburb. From the moment, I publicised Samuel’s scholarship to further his law studies at Stanford University in the USA in the 1980s, we became close comrades and friends. Ubiquitous and socially charming in nature, Samuel uniquely straddled many aspects of life within the community. With funds from Lotto, he established a social-welfare agency for abused women and girls of domestic violence having ANC heavyweight minister Steve Tshwete as his chief guest at the launch. From the law courts to the volleyball courts, Samuel has left big footprints. He rose as legal advisor to the International Volleyball Association. He even consulted for SASCOC – the national Olympic committee. He was also inspired politically by Nelson Mandela’s Rivonia Treason Trial. He then committed himself from his student days towards the Release Mandela Campaign, finally sharing the podium with the enigmatic ANC leader at an 1994 election rally in Chatsworth. Samuel stood unsuccessfully as an ANC candidate. However, his broad role-playing which took him to many parts of the world – continued until his death. His political party, African National Congress KwaZulu-Natal said in attribute: “We honour the memory of Comrade Siven Vasavan Samuel as a distinguished cadre of our revolutionary movement. “From his early student days at the then University of Durban-Westville, he displayed an unwavering commitment to community and human rights struggles. On the buses to and from university he would distribute pamphlets from our underground structures and address students about pertinent issues. He came from a poor background and had a powerful commitment to social justice. He followed up his initial qualifications as a lawyer with advanced studies at the Stanford University Law School in the United States.” As a leading lawyer, Samuel doffed his beret at joining corporate law firms or living a bourgeoisie lifestyle in a post-apartheid society: he was firmly rooted to his community until the end. Samuel was often called after hours to post bail for alleged offenders. Samuel often set aside lucrative legal work to represent the community in civic and municipal issues. He was passionate about building non-racial social cohesion among communities and made his mark championing non-racial sport, soccer and volleyball. He also ran his own soccer outfit, Desai Vedanta FC and was integral to the historical significance of the epic struggle against apartheid sports. As president of the Volleyball South Africa’s legal commission, he took the Cinderella sport to new heights and national recognition. Altogether, Samuel will be remembered for his all-round activism – a born activist – from justice, human rights, restorative justice, reconciliation, community issues, safety and security, social welfare and social justice, and his love for a good life and family, progressive politics, and as a socialite extraordinaire, attorney, sportsman and administrator. In many high profile court case, Samuel was hired as a defence attorney – from family killer Morgambery Kandasamy – sentenced to three life terms for slaying his wife and two children – to the sensational headline-making 1996 SBV transit van heist involving R31 million stolen by a local gang – including policemen. A generous soul with empathy and sympathy for the downtrodden and underprivileged people, Samuel often gave free legal services and was renowned for his pro bono and pro amico legal interventions and inputs. A gentle giant of community-spiritedness and camaraderie has fallen. Hamba Kahle Counsellor-Comrade.