eThekwini Municipality confirmed that they will be adding 20 more tankers gradually to service the areas experiencing water outages. This comes after Chatsworth residents experienced major water outages since 7 January. Residents had to procure private water tankers and also relied on generous sponsors and community organisations to supply water. In a statement on Tuesday, 12 January, Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson said: “The city would like to appeal to all residents that are bearing the brunt of water shortages in the aforesaid areas to bear with it as it is hard at work to usher in a permanent solution to the challenge. A total number of 20 water tankers will gradually be added which will bring the number to 54 to ensure that all residents affected have got access to clean water unceasingly.” Mayisela said that enormous work has already commenced to source water from the colossal western aqueduct to feed some areas that are affected. This will be over and above areas that benefited from the bypass that resulted in water being channelled from the Hocking Place Reservoir as from yesterday, 11 January. “A contractor appointed to fix the broken pump at Northdene is working around the clock to ensure that this mammoth task reach finality with speed. More stakeholders have been engaged with an intention of fast-tracking the process of getting the pump resuming its operations to the benefit of all residents,” said Mayisela. The city urges residents who are preventing trucks from entering certain areas to be considerate and refrain from doing so as this unlawful conduct has a negative impact on other residents. The city is also looking into an option of putting static water tankers in all areas affected to ensure that residents have access to water as and when they need it. Mayisela said: “As the country is seized with fighting the spread of Covid-19, the public is implored to maintain social distancing at all times when collecting water from water tankers. The Metro understands the frustration of the public and apologises to all residents affected and thank them for understanding.” For more information and enquiries regarding water supply, residents are urged to contact the Call Centre on 080 131 3013 or utilise the EWS WhatsApp number 073 1483 477. This is a developing story and updates will follow once new information is available.