Durban North Karate Grand Master Sonny Pillay, received overwhelming support in winning the recent Karate South Africa (KSA) elections with a landslide victory as President of KSA. The karate icon was born on a farm in KwaZulu-Natal and will be soon turning 70. His karate career commenced in 1968, 53 years ago to date. Pillay, a founder of KSA (previously known as KASA) since 1990 when together with other major role players established the first Democratic National Karate Organization in the country. He expressed his delight at the triumph despite some dirty politicking prior to the watershed elections. He said: “Given that this was an election that I won by an overwhelming majority to serve as president for a third term speaks volumes for the unreserved endorsement of the karate fraternity of South Africa. “I am delighted as I believe that there is unfinished business in Karate South Africa given the challenges that we had to overcome against the SASCOC leadership of the previous board (court action/arbitration etc.) in the first and second terms and off late Covid-19 made 2020 a non-starter. The national elections for all styles karate was attended by thirty regions and eight karate provinces from around the country with 75 delegates making their presence felt ensuring that there was huge representation through out the country. Barry Hendriks, president of the South African Sport Confederation and Olympic Committee (SASCOC) who delivered the keynote address that set the tone for the elective congress said that it was ensured that the election process was free, fair and democratic. Seasoned sports administrator Thami Mchunu President of KZN Sports Confederation conducted the elections as the election officer on the day and upon conclusion congratulated the newly elected executive committee and extended his best wishes for a successful term ahead. During his acceptance speech Pillay said: “The newly elected executive KSA is looking forward to season 2021 and beyond with renewed enthusiasm despite the pandemic that has engulfed our nation.” “We are strongly focussed on taking karate in our country to the next level,” he added. Pillay said some of his plans as president for the year is to host major karate events in South Africa such as the All Africa championships 2022 and ultimately the WKF World cup Karate 2023 that currently remains on the cards for South Africa. In June this year (2021) KSA will host the Africa Region South karate championships in Johannesburg. “With stringent Compliance protocols in place to combat Covid-19 about 50 percent of our karate clubs are ready to kick off after the two week holiday break,” said Pillay.