Well-known golf pro, Kevin Stone, has taken on the esteemed director of golf position at KwaZulu-Natal’s Mount Edgecombe Country Club (MECC). As one of South Africa’s premier residential golfing estates, the club is eagerly looking forward to working with a professional of Stone’s calibre. Stone’s qualifications speak for themselves. After turning professional in 1987 he played on the Sunshine Tour for 18 years. During this time he won eight Sunshine Tour events as well as winning the South African Club Professional Championship on nine occasions. On two occasions Stone also represented South Africa at the World Club Professional PGA Championship. In more recent times he has won five events on the Senior Tour. Daryn Hutchson, MECC chairman is delighted with the appointment and said he can’t wait to see over time what Stone will bring to his new role. “As you would expect this was a rigorous recruitment process. In keeping with our reputation, and expectations of key team members like our Director of Golf, we conducted thorough interviews with various candidates. In the end Kevin stood out to us as the best candidate for this particular position. He first came on board with us on an honorary basis, but even in that relatively short period of time we saw improvements on our golf courses while he was overseeing them,” said Hutchson. “His clear attention to detail, years of experience, passion for the sport and the high goals he sets for himself and his team made this an easy decision. We look forward to seeing continuous improvements to our golf courses as well as the overall golfing experience we offer our members,” added Hutchson. Stone’s past accomplishments on the golf course as a player are rivalled only by his achievements on the side-lines as well. The Els Club at Copperleaf (formerly known as Gardener Ross) benefitted from his experience and course management for five years, while Rustenburg Golf Club had Stone as their Club Professional for seven years. Stone also performed the role of Director of Golf at the Centurion Country Club for nine years. In all of these positions he gained a wealth of knowledge related to golf course maintenance and development, and in each instance proved himself up to the task, ensuring that the courses were always kept to the highest calibre.
Stone is thrilled to join the MECC team in their quest to remain one of South Africa’s premier golfing destinations. “I’ve greatly enjoyed my experience with the Mount Edgecombe Country Club so far. Working alongside a dynamic team like this has reignited my passion for overseeing golf courses. I truly believe that MECC is able to offer golfers the best golfing experience in the whole of KwaZulu-Natal, and I’ve already started implementing some strategies for 2021,” said Stone. “We’re setting our goals high because we believe that this is achievable with MECC’s courses and team. Although overseeing the maintenance of these unique championship courses is my main priority, I’m also eager to liaise with club members, help develop our junior golf division and get involved with overall staff development. MECC is already providing such a high calibre experience to golfers, but we can’t wait to keep building on that going forward,” added Stone.