The Shallcross community is still reeling in shock after witnessing an extreme shootout, that took the life of notorious alleged drug boss, Yaganathan Pillay. According to social media, speculations arose that the shootout was an alleged ‘hit’ on the 62-year-old after he received an expected visit from possible drug dealers that afternoon. It has further been alleged that the suspects who were responsible for Pillay’s death were employed by a rival drug king pin. Metro spokesperson, Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, said that police were on scene and made several attempts to intervene with no success as residents began throwing stones at the police. “After around 3pm on Monday, 4 January, Metro received a call out to Shallcross, Taurus Street, and upon arrival, we were prevented from going in as officers and the vehicles were getting stoned. The deceased had been allegedly shot and transported to a hospital unknown to us at the time,” said Sewpersad. Sewpersad confirmed that while they were prevented from entering the scene, two alleged male suspects were shot and dragged out onto the road. This was then followed by a gruesome act of ‘mob justice’ which has since been circulating on social media. “Videos are doing the rounds on social media of the two alleged suspects being beheaded and set alight. At that juncture, we had called in reinforcements to assist us in getting to the active scene. By the time that our reinforcements had stabilised the scene, we had discovered that both bodies were burned beyond recognition,” he said. In the graphic video footage, scores of people can be seen surrounding the two males and made no effort to intervene while the suspects’ almost lifeless bodies were decapitated. That evening, a host of over 200 people had gathered outside the Life Chatsmed Garden Hospital to pay their final respects to Pillay who met his demise with an alleged two gunshots to the head. Pillays son, Devendran Lionel, was also murdered in a drive-by shooting on Alpine Drive in Shallcross last year. Pillay had last ruffled the community’s feathers when he was arrested during a raid at his home last year on charges of illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. He was then released on R5000 bail. Metro police urges the community to come forward with any information they may have on the incident. “We appeal to the community not to withhold any information so that we can help in ridding the area of crime. Please do not live in fear for your life and change the stance taken towards local police. We are here to support the community, support us so that we can help you,” said Sewpersad. Sam Pillay, the veteran anti-drug campaigner has urged the government to beef up security to counter the turf wars that has been triggered by the shooting in the death of Teddy Mafia, adding the death of the drug distribution kingpin would not stop drug trafficking in Chatsworth and Shallcross.