The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is taking its toll on South Africans and claiming more and more lives everyday. Families are torn apart as they lose loved ones, and dedicated frontline volunteers, together with medical professionals, teachers, the police, among others who have succumbed to the virus. In as recently as a week, communities like Overport and Isipingo, among others, were left shocked as dedicated activists working tirelessly to fight the pandemic and to help bring relief to communities lost their lives to the pandemic. Messages of condolences poured in for fallen heroes including Zaid Sayed Noor, Zarrina Aasan and Rivaaj Ramdas. Other dedicated activists like Nazeer Jamal and Zain Soosiwala, who were also fighting the scourge came through a tough battle surviving an infection of the second wave of Covid-19. Survivors have a different story to tell. Tributes poured in for fallen community activists Zaid Syed Noor after a two-week battle in hospital with Covid-19. Described as selfless and always willing to help, Noor was only 43 years old. He served on the Sydenham SAPS Community Police Forum and other community-based organisations. “Zaid was a pleasing and refreshing gentleman. He never waivered from his dedication in his service to humanity. He was someone that you could call at any time of the day or night, and he would oblige. Zaid was one of the first people whom I met when I came to Durban a few years ago and it was because of him that I again ended up in the CPF and other organisations, as much as I wanted to leave it behind,” said close friend Mohammed Ismail. Another friend and someone who Noor worked closely with, Neil Green, who now lives in Ireland, wrote on his Facebook post:  “You know I joke a lot about not answering WhatsApps and all. But, today I learnt such a hard lesson I’ll never forget. My dear friend that I’ve shared the last 20 years with has passed on. “And right now at the end I hadn’t been a good friend in terms of talking to him even though he continued to talk to me. I’m shattered. A ou that would drop everything for me and yet I couldn’t even timeously reply to his messages. And now I can’t. From Truworths to Tikka on the beach to fatherhood to comedy nights to new cars and so many laughs shared. One of my favourite people I’ve ever broke bread with. I will miss you. You were one of the realest cuz. Rest in peace brother,” wrote Green (sic). Another people’s champion, Zarrina Assan lost her battle to Covid-19, a shock to the community that she served for so long. She passed away on 4 January. Assan was the Isipingo Women’s sub-forum chairperson, and was at the forefront of helping with relief to communities in the first hard lockdown. Messages of condolence flooded social media pages like “The Elders Voices KZN”, “Isipingo Districts MVG”, “Umbilo South Community Assist” and “Serving the Needy Welfare Group”, among others. Aiden David, chairperson of the Isipingo SAPS Community Police Forum, who worked closely with Assan said: “When I first met Aunty Zarina, she came asking for guidance regarding the women’s sub forum. However, she soon became my go-to person and we would often guide one another on various projects and issues.” “She put others before herself despite her own well-being. I spoke to her on New Year’s Day and once again she was only worried about her daughter in hospital and her unwell husband. I asked her: ‘When are you going to start looking after yourself’, she replied: ‘How can I, chair, when my people need me more.” Another well-known community activist who succumbed to the virus was Rivaaj Ramdas who gained more popularity following his anti-adhaan banning campaign that he led last year. Ramdas passed away on 6 January. Reaction Unit South Africa’s (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said: “Rivaaj will be remembered for giving selflessly to the community. He was seen as a hero to many and a loss to those in need.” Yasien Mathen, a resident of Glen Hills, said Ramdass was someone he met on social media who quickly became his close friend. “Whenever he stood up for human rights by means of a peaceful protest or charity drive he would always invite everyone to join in to assist in any way. He was more than just a friend to everyone. He touched many hearts with his bravery, compassion and drive to serve humanity,” said Mathen. While some have been claimed by the virus, others have made full recoveries. Active Citizen’s Coalition member Zain Soosiwala fought hard to beat Covid-19 and is now on the road to recovery. “These are unprecedented times. Activism is now hardwired in all of us who work under the banner of eThekwini Secure. I think now more than ever, despite the coronavirus people need to put aside their differences and find new ways of playing a crucial role in the fight against this pandemic.” Soosiwala believes the hardest part of his fight against the virus would be the impact it could have on his family. “Questions like ‘did I infect them?’, and ‘did we do enough to contain the virus?’ are all the things that play on my mind, especially since I have kids with my youngest being only a year old,” he said. Another community and environmental activist that felt the impact of the virus is Nazeer Jamal. “The Covid-19 pandemic has been challenging for every sector and the humanitarian sector has not been left out. In my community we lost over 30 activists in the last few months and many are in hospital under high-care as we speak,” he said. Jamal said that he is not sure how he contracted the virus but after being on the frontlines was when he first experienced symptoms. “It was first a fever and I immediately isolated at home. I then had extreme body pains, more fever and headaches and as soon as I lost my smell and taste, I went for a Covid test that came back positive. “I visited my doctor on day seven as my breathing became shallow and chest tightened. He gave me cough mixture, double dose of injected steroids, antibiotic and a blood thinner. I also took Ivermectin that was given to me by a friend. “By day eight all my symptoms had disappeared however my breathing was still poor. I still isolated at home until day 18 to be safe and ensure that the virus had gone. I continued walking at home, inhaling and taking the vitamins.” said Jamal. He said that he would return to community work within the next few weeks. “Our Penny Appeal teams have been sacrificing their holidays to continue providing aid across South Africa and in many other parts of the world and so we still have much to do. As much as government has a legal responsibility to ensure healthcare for all, we as a community have the ethical responsibility to ensure people are assisted with nutritious food, clean water and hygiene care,” said Jamal. At the same time several community-based organisations including eThekwini Secure and the Active Citizens Coalition have strengthened their Covid-19 awareness campaign by flooding social media with information on why people should stay at home and not risk their lives publicly. “Staying at home is the best vaccine,” said activist Imtiaz Syed. “More and more people are becoming infected. There seems to be no letting up of this virus. We are worried as community activists. Nobody seems to be listening. Please, be part of the solution,” said Syed.