The Chatsworth community is still reeling in shock after anti-drug warrior, Sam Pillay passed away yesterday, Monday, 25 January, due to Covid-19 and will be laid to rest with his wife Indrani today, Tuesday, 26 January. Tributes started pouring in for the Pillay family on Saturday, 23 January, when Indrani had fallen victim to the virus. Social media users were urged not to divulge any information over the weekend as Pillay was still in hospital and had not yet received the news of his wife’s passing. The former teacher was famously known for his fight against the drug pandemic as well as exposing drugs such as ‘Sugars’ and ‘Flakka’ through his Anti-Drug Forum. Community personalities felt a tug at their heartstrings after hearing the news of the couple’s demise and took to social media to share their tributes. Humanitarian, Mehreen Mia Cassimjee said: “Sam worked on various programs and brought relief to thousands of families affected by drugs with the use of his counselling and rehabilitation programs. I had the privilege of meeting with him and engaging on some projects, and especially regarding my program to be rolled out at schools this year. It was an absolute pleasure to have worked with both the couple in many instances. Sam was a hero to many and his wife a true humanitarian in the works she embraced.” Talk show host, CJ Benjamin reminisced about her times with Pillay on a Facebook post. She wrote: “It began on my Radio show Youth Crossfire on Lotus FM and not once in those years did you let me down when I needed you. We exposed the drug ‘Sugars’ and its tragic effect on our children, we interviewed teenagers and told their stories to educate the country. This was your character, a selfless hero to our community and many others. I witnessed firsthand the generosity of your spirit and the sheer unrelenting dedication to cleaning our streets of drugs and dealers. Your beautiful wife was the perfect partner, she never complained when we pulled you away from home at odd hours and weekends to help with a case of addiction, she supported your work and I believe she was the strength behind the man. We will miss you Indrani.” Marlan Padayachee, chief media strategist at MapMedia GreenGold Consulting (Pty) Limited, and columnist and social commentator, said the Covid-19 related death of anti-drug crusader Sam Pillay, and similarly earlier death of his wife, Indrani, must send the strongest signal to drug-infested communities from Chatsworh to Phoenix and Umhlanga and Kwa Mashu that the abuse of chemical substances is as deadly as the coronavirus pandemic. “Having consulted for two new drug rehabilitation centers run by medical general practitioners, I can vouch that working with Sam Pillay revealed his unique passion and commitment to eradicating the surge and scourge of a cocktail of drugs from the schoolyards to seedy drug dens in the inner city townships,” he said. Padayachee said that drugs were no longer the illicit relief of the poor, but these categories of substances has infiltrated the rich and well off people – ironically many who also reap illegal funds from government tender corruption, fraud and underground and backdoor activities and as well as the current Covid-19 bootlegging of alcohol and cigarettes at exorbitant prices in the shadowy black market. Adult children of politicians and doctors are being admitted to these expensive drug rehabilitation private enterprises run by medical doctors and investors, he added. As a tribute to Sam Pillay’s secular Anti-Drug Forum, both the addiction rehabilitation medical detoxification treatment businesses like the Assisted Recovery Centres of Africa (ARCA) – run by Dr Prakash Naidoo – and the Jullo Centre founded by Dr Lochan Naidoo – also once the president of the USA International Narcotics Control Board – and NGOs, private hospitals and local government –  should preserve Pillay’s lifelong legacy and contribute funding, sponsorships, resources and voluntary workers for the establishment of the Sam and Indrani Pillay Anti-Drug Centre in Chatsworth.