“We have lost a humble servant of the people and a true champion of the poor and the downtrodden.” – Zikalala. It is with deep shock and sadness that Sihle Zikalala, Kwazulu-Natal (KZN) Premier announced the untimely passing of Bhekuyise Ntuli, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison. Ntuli passed away, in a Durban hospital, due to Covid-19 related complications, on Saturday afternoon, 16 January. Addressing the media, Zikalala said: “MEC Ntuli has been on the frontline of combat, working day in and day out to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on citizens. He is a soldier who died with his boots on. He was a team player, who always led from the front, including when it came to fighting Covid-19 in the province.” Muntukayise Bhekuyise Ntuli, was born in 1957 in Mtubatuba, in the north of KwaZulu-Natal. He worked in the ANC underground structures and was a liberation fighter, who was involved in uMkhonto WeSizwe underground operations. Affectionately known by his clan name “Mphemba”, he was appointed to the position of MEC in September 2019. Zikalala called Ntuli a “humble, loyal, dedicated, hard-working and exemplary servant of the people of KZN.” He said that Ntuli was at the coalface of the epic battle from the time the first case was confirmed last year. Ntuli led many campaigns against the virus as Chair of the Justice, and Crime Prevention Cluster with the Provincial Command Council. Zikalala said Ntuli always tackled his tasks and responsibilities with aplomb, in spite of their complex and sensitive nature. This included programmes that were aimed at reversing the tide of gender-based violence, taxi violence, and reducing the carnage on the province’s roads. “He has consistently displayed exceptional leadership and wisdom.  His charm and charisma enabled him to tackle the most challenging aspect of his portfolio.  He criss-crossed the province, ensuring that people adhere to the Covid-19 protocols,” said Zikalala. Ntuli previously served as a shop steward of the National Union of Metal Workers of South Africa, and was involved in the formation of ANC structures in the then Northern Natal region. “Mphemba garnered a lot of respect as a peacemaker at the height of political violence between ANC and IFP in Northern Natal, mainly in what is now known as the Musa Dladla Region, “ said Zikalala. Ntuli served for more than 15 years as the Chairperson of the ANC in the Musa Dladla Region. He has served for more than 20 years as a member and leader of the ANC sub–committee on Peace and Stability. He also served as a Member of Council, and the Chairperson of the Council of the University of Zululand. He was involved in numerous community development projects, assisting community organizations and young people. Ntuli held many tertiary qualifications, including a Primary Teachers Certificate from eMadadeni College; a degree in Management from UCT Graduate School of Business; a Certificate in Leadership from Wits University; and Post–graduate Diploma in Research, Strategic Diplomacy and Transitional Justice from University of Johannesburg, among others. Zikalala called his Ntuli’s loss a “major blow.” EThekwini Municipality Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda conveyed his condolences to the Ntuli’s family. Kaunda has called on other leaders to emulate Ntuli whom he described as a disciplined and humble servant of the people who dedicated his entire life in the struggle for a better life for all.