As communities continue to buckle under the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic community- based organisations and volunteers in Newcastle continue to double their efforts to bring relief to patients. “What keeps a nation strong is really the community. It is about people and helping each other,” says Razia Cassim, one of Newcastle’s community members who are lending a helping hand during trying times. Cassim said that many people have lost their jobs as businesses were affected by the lockdown and many are struggling to support their families. Orgnaisations have put together grocery packs, sanitisation kits and personal protective equipment for medical staff. Cassim and her team honoured healthcare workers at the Mother and Child Clinic as well as the Madadeni provincial hospital. Another team, wanting to remain anonymous is providing nutritious soup with ingredients that can help the human body fight the virus with anti-inflammatory ingredients. Said Cassim: “We as a community have come together to show our appreciation to our frontline workers. We held a fundraiser and we have managed to come up with PPE gift packs for the doctors and nurses just as a small token of appreciation for their tireless dedication in their duties,” she said. Each hamper consisted of disposable coveralls, reinforced gowns, face shields, face masks, sanitisers, sanitiser belt pouch, gloves and multipurpose disinfectants. Hampers were also given to the Muslim Burial Society and to the Newcastle Crematorium. “The response from the community has been amazing,” said Cassim. “Our town is full of generous people who help without asking questions or giving a second thought. Our aim is to help those who are vulnerable to get back on their feet. I would like to thank each and every person who has so graciously given. May God bless you all in His abundance.” The drive of generosity has been much welcomed by the community. Simoné Daniels, one of the recipients, said that she was glad that people have been so kind. “Every person at this moment is fighting some kind of battle, be it health or financial. I am finding things a bit difficult as of late, so I am very thankful to the constant kindness displayed by our close-knit community,” said Daniels. Patients who are at home and infected with Covid-19 also have some aid. An “anonymous team”, who have so kindly given of their time and resources, are providing those who are in quarantine with a hearty chicken soup and a coronavirus fighting tonic to assist in the recovery process.The tonic consists of garlic, lemon, kulunji (black seeds) and some other natural ingredients to assist the body with healing and inflammation. “Whatever we are doing is not for popularity but to simply help those fighting the virus and assist them into a speedy recovery,” said one of the team members. The package is delivered free of charge in Newcastle. “Those who need assistance can simply contact us on WhatsApp and provide us with their address and two contact numbers and we will drop off the package. So many are ill and this is just something small that we can do during this time. The community of Newcastle has been absolutely amazing. Since we began this, the amount of assistance offered has been absolutely overwhelming,” she said. Should anyone in quarantine suffering with Covid-19 need help send a WhatsApp to 063-016-7327.