A Phoenix dad is calling for justice to be served after his son, Donovan Govender, 29, was stabbed to death while seated in his vehicle with a friend opposite Greenbury Secondary School, on 23 December 2020. Three suspects were swiftly arrested on murder charges. Phoenix SAPS communications Captain Louise Naidoo, said: “An eyewitness alleged that Donovan Govender and himself were seated in the vehicle when Govender was attacked inside the car by two known men. Both, armed with knives, stabbed the victim all over his body and fled the scene on foot. The victim was then taken to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital by a private vehicle where he eventually succumbed to his injuries.” Cpt Naidoo said that the Trio Crimes members traced the suspects and three men aged between 19 and 41-years-old were arrested. Rungen Pillay, 41, Mathew Chetty, 20, and Elijah Chetty, 19, appeared in court and were granted bail. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Donovan’s father, Moonsamy Narainsamy Govender said his son was a wonderful person who respected everyone in the community. “He will be dearly missed by all of us who knew him. I want justice to be served; no one deserves to die in the manner my son died. His killers don’t deserve to be out on bail and they are a danger to society. They must be locked up for their actions.” Phoenix Community Police Forum chairman, Umesh Singh, slammed the heinous deed and said: “This was an act of barbarism. This is not how we react in a civilised society. Quick action by police led to the arrests and now it is up to the court to ensure justice prevails. A family lost their loved one, a husband, son and dad, in a cruel and heinous manner and
they will have to live with that horrific thought. Whatever the circumstances, there is always a civil way to resolve matters.” Minorities of South Africa (Mosa) leader, Councillor Roy Moodley said: “This is such a callous act and was not called for. Nothing can justify the killing of another at a time when we should be standing together to fight the Covid pandemic. Justice must be served.” Community activist, Saroj Govender stated: “I place my trust and faith in the justice system for justice to be served on the gruesome murder of a young family man who was the sole bread-winner. He has left behind his wife and two small children. Nothing and no-one can replace a father. Let’s hope that this matter is not dragged on for too long.”