Family of patients admitted to two provincial hospitals have lodged complaints regarding important lapses in communication between hospital staff and family as well as poor treatment of patients, and other concerns. This follows the death of some of the patients who died from Covid-related as well as non-Covid related illnesses. Tracey Williams, founder of Wentworth Angels non-profit organisation, called attention to the issue on social media via a video that went viral on 4 January. She said that despite the issue of hot meals, correct medication and clean linen being rectified by one of the hospitals– after pressure from social media – further inconsistencies of untrained nurses, racism, unused facilities and medical vehicles as well as public communications are still in question at the other hospital. “We have been inundated with calls from the community looking for family within the hospitals. We have been trying tirelessly to get hold of people within the hospitals but are told lines are down and given other feeble excuses. There are multiple questions surrounding the hospitals right now; no medication, no decent meals served to families, nurses are untrained, short-staffed, holding patients who are asymptomatic and vacant positions are not filled once staff become Covid-19 positive,” said Williams. “There are nurses who have been in training that can help these people. These are complaints from both the community and staff within the hospitals,” she added. Williams said that she addressed the issue with one hospital and was unable to reach the other hospital management. She has failed to receive concrete feedback from both hospitals. In April 2020 hospital staff went on strike regarding a lack of PPE that was eventually rectified by Kwa-Zulu Natal Health, however growing discontent amongst staff and general work conditions are rumoured to be fuelling the irresponsible treatment of patients according to local informants who wished to remain anonymous. In addition, cell phone footage and complaints to Williams of staff being blatantly racist towards certain demographics has emerged and yet to receive attention from hospital administration. Williams said: A family of a woman who had passed away on Friday, 1 January were only notified about her death on Monday, 4 January. Another gentleman who passed away on Sunday, 3 January was only made known to his family on Tuesday,
6 January. How is this possible?” New facilities built are also in question as several new emergency vehicles and ambulances are currently being unused despite demands on the national healthcare system. “According to Williams, security officials at the unused building confirmed that the premises is partly empty and filled with medical equipment, hence their presence. Williams was also notified by hospital management that said facility was temporarily being used as a nursing residence despite previous plans to be used as a hospital in 2021. Williams said: “We are calling on the community to help one another stay safe from Covid-19 by donating medication, fruits, vegetables and other immune boosting vitamins that we will distribute to those in need who are asymptomatic.” She continued: “It is sad that we have only received help from pharmacies outside Wentworth for nebulizers, medication and masks despite our pleas. If rural clinics and hospitals can be open 24/7 and provide communities with sufficient meal supplements and food, why can’t ours?” The Southern Star contacted the hospitals for comment and were told that questions should be forwarded to KZN Health in Pietermaritzburg. At the time of going to print, no response had been received from KZN Health regarding the complaints on the
two hospitals.