“The pandemic in our country is now at its most devastating,” said President Cyril Ramaphosa in his address to the nation on Monday, 11 January. To contain the rapid rise in infections, the country will remain on adjusted lockdown level 3 whilst the curfew has been extended from 9pm to 5am. Alcohol sales are still not permitted. Ramaphosa said the number of new infections, hospital admissions and deaths is higher now than it has been since the first case. Since New Year’s Day, SA has recorded nearly 190,000 new coronavirus infections. The country has recorded more than 4,600 Covid-19 deaths so far this year. Since the start of the pandemic, South Africa has recorded a cumulative number of more than 1.2 million Covid-19 cases. More than 33,000 deaths have been recorded. KwaZulu-Natal has the highest average number of cases over the last seven days, followed by Western Cape, Gauteng, Limpopo and Mpumalanga. New infections in KwaZulu-Natal and the Western Cape have grown fast and have exceeded the peak during the first wave. There are currently over 15,000 people with Covid-19 in hospitals nationally, placing strain on health facilities hence the intensive focus on health facilities. Scientists say that the massive increase in infections is largely driven by a variant of the coronavirus known as 501.v2, first identified in South Africa in November. The new variant of the virus spreads much faster than the earlier variants explaining why many more people have become infected in a far shorter space of time. This new variant does not cause more severe illness than the original variants but puts more pressure on the health system. “We must do everything possible to slow the rate of transmission and flatten the curve of infection. We will undertake a massive programme of vaccination so that we can achieve immunity across our population and thereby slow the spread of the virus,” said Ramaphosa. Adjusted alert level 3 The country will remain on adjusted alert level 3. Most measures announced on 28 December 2020 remain. – Indoor and outdoor gatherings not permitted i.e social gatherings, religious gatherings, political events, traditional council meetings and gatherings at sports grounds. This does not include funerals and other limited exceptions, such as restaurants, museums and gyms -Funerals are ‘super spreaders’. Not more than 50 people to attend a funeral. – Curfew will now start at 9pm and end earlier, at 5am. – Wearing of mask in public is compulsory. – Sale of alcohol from retail outlets and on-site consumption still not permitted. – Beaches, dams, lakes, rivers, public parks and swimming pools in hotspot areas closed to the public. Botanical gardens and national parks may open. Congestion at land border posts 20 land ports of entry will be closed until 15 February for general entry and departure. Border posts are Beitbridge, Lebombo, Maseru Bridge, Oshoek, Ficksburg and Kopfontein. People allowed to enter or depart the country for: – transportation of fuel, cargo and goods, – emergency medical attention for life-threatening conditions, – return of South African nationals, permanent residents or persons with valid visas, – diplomats, – departure of foreign nationals, – daily commuters from neighbouring countries who attend school in South Africa. Restrictions on religious and other gatherings remain. Guidance will follow on the issue of schools and educational institutions opening. Vaccine Strategy When enough people are vaccinated, ‘herd immunity’ or ‘population immunity’ will be reached. Scientists estimate that herd immunity will be reached once around 67 percent of the population are immune, amounting to 40 million people in South Africa. Ramaphosa said a vaccination strategy is in place. Vaccines procured through World Health Organization’s COVAX facility, the African Union’s vaccine initiative and direct engagements with vaccine manufacturers. SA will receive vaccine doses for around 10 per cent of the population through COVAX. SA secured 20 million doses to be delivered mainly in the first half of the year and will prioritise: Phase 1: 1.2 million front line health workers Phase 2: Essential workers: teachers, police, municipal workers and frontline personnel. People in institutions like old age homes, shelters and prisons, people over 60 years of age and adults with co-morbidities. Targeting 16 million people. Phase 3: Remaining adult population of 22.5 million people. Gender-based violence and femicide a second pandemic Ramaphosa said plans to implement social and behavioural change interventions are taking shape. Government is collaborating with civil society to sensitise taxi drivers and taxi marshals on gender awareness and GBVF.