As Covid-19 sweeps through the nation claiming more lives each day one can’t help but wonder when normality will resume. As bleak as it may seem the answer may lie in Ivermectin treatment. “Observational, experiential, and research-based evidence, both locally and globally, support Ivermectin. It is an effective, fast-acting, safe, and cheap medicine that won the Nobel Prize. I have no doubt that Ivermectin is a human right protected by our Constitution” said Shabnam Palesa Mohamed, an activist and founder of South Africa Has A Right to Ivermectin (SAHARI), a group advocating for the use of Ivermectin as treatment for Covid-19. Mohamed said the Ivermectin drug is an anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory and anti-parasitic medicine that is one of the best medicines in the world along with aspirin and penicillin. “I have been researching Ivermectin for a while. Once I was convinced by the strength of the evidence, I decided to turn that research into action through civil society solidarity. I launched a Facebook group (SAHARI) a few days ago and it’s growing exponentially” she said. While some see the benefits of this drug, Mohamed said that the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) do not share the same view. “Our people are remarkably courageous and ingenious, especially when it comes to helping each other and saving lives. It is a short-sighted shame that instead of supporting doctors and terrified people, the SAHPRA decided to make the medicine illegal. There is no justification.” Mohamed said the drug would also be a cost effective solution as Ivermectin tablets would cost R10. “Even if we import them, rather than making them in South Africa, they will not cost more than R100. It is costing far more to prop up a failing health care system. Our health care workers are exhausted and dying. It is painful to know first-hand what our nurses and doctor are going through. The money we save from overburdened hospitals can be invested in developing better facilities and hiring the 40 000 health care workers whose positions were frozen, up to now,” she said. Spokesperson for SAHPRA, Yuven Gounden said: “Ivermectin has made headlines recently as a so-called ‘miracle cure’ for Covid-19. However, SAHPRA’s stance is unambiguous. This drug is not approved by SAHPRA and any attempt to import this drug into the country will be perceived as being unlawful. There is no confirmatory data on Ivermectin available as yet for its use in the management of Covd-19 infections. In terms of safety and efficacy there is no evidence to support the use of Ivermectin and we do not have any clinical trial evidence to justify its use.”