With KwaZulu-Natal being one of the provinces with the highest number of Covid-19 cases, Dr Zweli Mkhize, the Minister of Health, conducted a walkabout at hospitals around eThekwini on Monday, 18 January, to find out how staff are coping and what challenges they face. The Minister is visiting all provinces that are considered Covid-19 hotspots. Mkhize visited uMsunduzi Clinic KwaZimba, Prince Mshiyeni Memorial, King Dinuzulu Hospital, a brand new and vacant Emergency Medical Services (EMS) residential unit in Sydenham (which is a potential future isolation site for mild cases), KwaMashu Community Health Centre, and Umhlanga Hospital. “We are now in a situation where every family is attending to someone or knows someone who has lost their life to the virus. On the medical side we have seen a number of people that have been affected. In the past two to three days we have lost three professors,” said Mkhize. He stressed that in order to contain the spread of the virus, citizens need to follow the Covid-19 regulations. “It is very important for us to realise that there is no special way of reducing the spread of this disease other than the indications we have given about the use of masks. How we behave now will determine how far the spread of the infection is going to go,” said Mkhize. The minister said South Africa might see a reduction in the next two to three weeks because of the intensive use of masks, hand- washing, sanitising and distancing. “We have to work very hard to push this curve down again. With the past few weeks of restrictions we are beginning to see an indication that we might see this surge coming down quite a bit,” he said. Mkhize said government will be focusing on communicating much more to the public regarding vaccines. “I think it is important to create an awareness that there is going to be a need to embrace the vaccine. In doing so we need to start encouraging those in the priority groups to be moving ahead. What we have noticed in KZN is that the number of people infected is still high. The positivity rate
is almost twice as much as what we had previously. Therefore, even though the numbers may start reducing it will be a while before the health system feels any kind of reduction. Therefore emphasis on the use of masks,” he said. Mkhize said when people start to feel weak they should seek medical attention as soon as they can. “Some people feel fear going to hospital, as a result by the time they get to the hospital it is too late to give them assistance. Our hospitals are under pressure but there will still be a way to treat you appropriately,” said Mkhize.