Social media platforms from WhatsApp to Facebook were abuzz with almost daily death notices of people who you may know and their demise – possibly through Covid-19-ralated complications, infections, hospitalization, co-morbidity and chronic illnesses, non-social distancing and non-adherence to the stringent coronavirus health safety protocols, or even the government’s appeals to stay at home and avoid large gatherings from funerals to social events. Following the spate of deaths over the festive fortnight, we record the following deaths: RIVAAJ RAMDAS: shot to prominence in 2002 at the University of Durban-Westville (UKZN), as SRC vice-president launched a campaign to support struggling students from their financial and resources woes. On Wednesday, he lost his battle against Covid-19. His mentor and academic-activist leader, Professor Dasarath Chetty, then head of corporate communications, said this week as a “dynamic young man, a speaker at graduation’’ Ramdas had broken the mould when he began focusing his activism on assisting students from underprivileged backgrounds; and later focusing on the victims of crime – including students and home-owners: “This commitment for the downtrodden was something Rivaaj never gave up on. In his inimitable and sometimes controversial style, he continued to serve the underprivileged and later the victims of crime. Like so many notable, yet less acknowledged contributors to the history of UD-W and the Westville Campus, he succumbed to the ravages of the coronavirus. Rivaaj was a larger than life personality, opinionated, a devout Hindu and a personable human being who had an impact on everyone he met. He sang karaoke songs in pubs; and crooned the 1970s Real Things’ soul ballad “You To Me Are Everything.’’ MAHEN UTCHANAH: As one of the founders of the Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International) – who also inspired the SA Chapter and headlined the world congress in Durban in 2010 – would have loved to have seen the merger of the two groups of the diaspora movement before he fell victim to Covid-19 after his stay-safe campaigning. Professor Dasarath Chetty, one of the founders of the local chapter with Krish Gokool, shared this week that the Mauritian born unifier of worldwide Indians in the diaspora and mainland was hoping that the separate entities with the same goals would unite and merge – particularly in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have lost a true champion of the people of Indian origin who popularized the organization with the Indian government, along with many colleagues on both sides of the divide. “Mahen loved the motherland deeply, but always maintained that Mauritius is the favourite child of India, and he fostered culture and tradition, even when he left politics in Mauritius. Our best remembrance and homage is to unify and have one Gopio International.’’ MRS T CHETTY: Like serial letter writers to the editor, such as Ismail Moolla of Umzinto – who famously wrote to British PM Margaret Thatcher to continue trading links with apartheid SA and the Iron Lady responded by saying she would expand the relations despite the world embargo and ban on Pretoria – Mrs T Chetty was a popular caller to Lotusfm radio to convey her good wishes to her family members and make song requests. She also passed away during the pandemic. AKASH BIRJANUND: Described as a “Durban icon, community stalwart and hero’’, Akash of Overport’s Sunrise Fruiterers and Johnnies late-night bunny-chow ranch is on the list of the departed. NEELAMBAL PULLIAH: Following the Covid-19 death of Merebank’s Mary Anne Govindsamy, deaths continue to plague this family. Neelambal Pulliah, of Bonela, Cato Manor, wife of retired teacher and ex-president of the Merewent FA, Poliah Pulliah, passed away, and like the Govindsamys, her family is also in quarantine. The Pulliah family are best known as Indian and western music and soccer, cricket and sports personalities. Journalists have also been hit hard by the pandemic:
Rachel Vadi at Lotusfm scribbled on Facebook: “I have tested #CovidPositive
So the last few days have been difficult to say the least. But, yes, I am #CovidPositive I have documented a few videos and diary entry notes, but have not been sharing because, well, I just felt I needed to heal. It has been a few days now, and I am hopefully on my way to recovery.” Kailene Pillay of Pietermaritzburg and formerly of Independent Newspapers also confirmed on Facebook she had tested positive for coronavirus and posted a screenshot of her Covid-19 test result. Media sources say a senior producer and news reader at Lotusfm had also contracted the virus. Independent TV eNCA has also paid tribute to staffers who had fallen victims of the Covid-19 scourge. Worldwide hundreds of working journalists on the frontline of breaking news have also been hardest hit by the pandemic, according to media trade unions.