As the number of Covid-19 infections increase, so are the calls for the unbanning of Ivermectin to be given to Covid-19 patients. Interest and political groups have called on government to generate a roll-out plan of the drug. Communities rallied together and held a peaceful placard demonstration in Old Fort Road, on Monday, with a call to have Ivermectin legalised and made available to the public. More people are now putting their faith in Ivermectin to combat the virus. Recently, police raided hospitals allegedly stocking the drug that the government has now banned. “We want Ivermectin,” said one Covid-19 positive patient who did not want to be named. “If Covid does not kill you, the vaccine will. How can the government shove an untested and unproven vaccine down our throats so quickly. It takes years for clinical trials to show the effectiveness of any vaccine,” said the Covid patient. Visvin Reddy, Durban activist and president of African Democratic Change (ADeC), who led the demonstration said that it was part of a campaign that ADeC has embarked on to educate and inform the masses about the benefits of Ivermectin. Reddy said that people are panicking because government and health authorities were focusing entirely on vaccines which is meant to prevent the virus but there is no mention of finding a cure. “People are dying and these are no longer statistics but rather those who we know. Ivermectin is proving to be a wonder drug in the treatment of Covid-19. Many countries like Australia and Bolivia are using Ivermectin to treat people that are infected with the virus, and successfully too,” Reddy said. Reddy further stated that the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority’s (SAHPRA) response to the unbanning of Ivermectin is concerning. “They argue that there is insufficient evidence to support Ivermectin to treat Covid-19 patients. They behave as though we are not in a crisis and are refusing to think outside the box,” Reddy said. “They argue that there is insufficient evidence to support Ivermectin to treat Covid-19 patients. They behave as though we are not in a crisis and are refusing to think outside the box,” Reddy said. Shabnam Palesa Mohammed, activist and founder of South Africa Has A Right to Ivermectin (SAHARI), a group advocating for the use of Ivermectin as a treatment for Covid, echoed Reddy’s sentiment. She said: “Observational, experimental and search-based evidence, both locally and globally, support Ivermectin. It is an effective, fast-acting, safe and cheap medicine that won the Nobel Prize. I have no doubt that Ivermectin is a human right protected by our constitution.” Mohammed said that the Ivermectin drug is an anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory and anti-parasitic medicine that is one of the best medicines in the world, along with aspirin and penicillin. Roy Bhoola, leader of the Allied Movement for Change shared the same sentiments of Reddy and Mohammed. He said that funds should be redirected from failing state-owned facilities and utilised in the distribution of Ivermectin. “We want to call on government to use the monies from the solidarity fund to obtain the vaccines directly from the manufacturers. Lets not forget how government was prepared to go into pension funds to bail out Eskom and South African Airways, and said it will rescue the economy.” Bhoola said communities are being ravaged by Covid-19 and the people of South Africa cannot wait for government’s prolonged approach to vaccination roll-out when there are people dying presently. “Health professionals and doctors the world over are advocating for the use of Ivermectin. We have seen in many countries the success of it. While the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) is clear that more trials need to be done to see efficacy, we also know that SAHPRA occasionally grants Section 21 permits for the use of topical ivermectin as an unregistered product for the treatment of individual patients with conditions such as scabies and head lice. “This would lead me to believe that there is a loop-hole for implementation. Furthermore, stories about the success of Ivermectin have been flooding our news for a while now. Why has SAHPRA not been proactive to initiate clinical trials. Why do we as communities have to beg for our lives to be saved?” said Bhoola. He also said that as leaders, government needs to make decisions based on the information they have on hand. “The information we have is that lives are being saved with the use of this drug. If left unchecked, this virus could wipe out nearly half of our population” he said. Bhoola believes that if the drug isn’t rolled out soon people will lose faith in the government. “We will see civil unrest. Moreover, we will see more people die of Covid-19. If the government has solutions, and chooses not to use them they will have blood on their hands,” said Bhoola. Sameeha Jeewa, resident in Overport said that had she known about Ivermectin sooner, during the period when she was Covid-19 positive, she would have taken the drug. “The stories of Ivermectin and its benefits of fighting the virus has been circulating on news websites and social media, I would have definitely taken it considering all the positive feedback coming from many people across the world and in the country. I really do think this drug should be legalised especially since it is one that is helpful in the treatment of Covid-19,” Jeewa said. The buzz around Ivermectin being a drug that aids in combating Covid-19 has seen many trying to obtain it illegally. On 7 January, a man from Pakistan was arrested at King Shaka International airport after he was allegedly found to be carrying over 2464 Ivermectin tablets in his hand luggage. The South African Police Department Spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe said the man had flown in from Dubai and the market value of the tablets was R100 000. A little while after the arrest the Ahmed Al-Kadi private hospital came under investigation as police received a tip-off that the hospital was in possession of Ivermectin. The hospital manager, Ebrahim Asmal released a statement saying: “We confirm that the hospital was visited by officials from SAHPRA and SAPS to investigate the controversial drug Ivermectin (at the hospital). We confirm that no such drug was found on the hospital premises. The hospital confirms that the matter has been referred to its attorneys.” Yuven Gounden from the SAHPRA said: “In South Africa Ivermectin is registered for use under Act 36 of 1947 (Department of Agriculture) for use in animals. This means that veterinarians and other trained personnel are allowed to prescribe it as an anti-parasitic agent for a variety of animals. The drug is not currently registered for human-use however SAHPRA does, on occasion, grant Section 21 permits for the use of topical Ivermectin as an unregistered product.” Gounden further said that there is an ongoing discussion however no final announcement has been made for the approval of legalizing Ivermectin.