The community of Merebank and Merewent are yet again subjected to horrendous sewage smells from the Southern Waste Water Treatment Works (SWWTW). The South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA) said: “One resident said that the smell occurs all day and intensifies as the day progresses. Just when you are about to have your lunch or supper, sewage smells start coming in through your doors and windows. It’s beyond disgusting.”In November last year, frustrated Merebank residents picketed peacefully outside SWWTW demanding change and answers. However, they received no response from government and plant officials. Bongani Mthembu, air quality control officer at the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA), said that previously the awful smell was experienced but has grown worse recently. “The Merebank community are at the receiving-end of a double dose of smells, and ambient pollution, from SWWTW plant; petrochemical industries and a paper mill. This is leaving them worried about their health during a time when no-one’s immune system should be compromised.” Residents say that they are affected by the smell and ongoing pollution. “This isn’t a simple
burst pipe. It’s the entire plant itself which is situated in the Merebank community. There are homes, houses, flats and stores surrounding the plant which absolutely reek. “The tanks at SWWTW are completely open and exposed to the outside environment. This isn’t an issue solely at Merebank but at any sewage plant. Whichever direction the wind goes so does this toxic amalgamation,” said Mthembu. SDCEA and the community say they have constantly interacted with Vikash Dala, SWWTW superintendent to determine what the plans would be in resolving the health problem. Mthembu said: “We have not received any actual answers that were satisfactory or justified. This is unacceptable as we are rate-payers, like all other South African citizens and are having to suffer. The eThekwini Municipality has not indicated any plans to resolve this issue to date.” The SDCEA and residents are calling for eThekwini Municipality to immediately expedite a solution to this matter. The ward 68 councillor was unavailable due to him contracting Covid-19. Comment from eThekwini Municipality was not forthcoming at the time of going to print.