The number of children being ordered and groomed into the life of crime by guardians is increasing in South Africa and the public has been urged to report the culprits to the police. The appeal was made by Jo Moodley, social work manager at Tongaat Child Welfare, following the recent incident of a child, in company of two women, caught allegedly stealing a cellphone belonging to a shopkeeper of a Verulam clothing store. The child was spotted on the store’s CCTV footage removing the cellphone from a drawer and stashing it in his pants. The boy then returns to one of the women and leaves. Zubair Patel, a shop assistant, said that the women did not buy any clothes from the store. He said that a case of theft was opened at Verulam SAPS. Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson, confirmed that a case of theft has been opened. Shocked by the incident, Moodley said: “This is becoming a serious issue in Verulam and Tongaat where you find adults using children to do their dirty work. This could be attributed to various reasons including a high percentage of unemployment, desperation for money and also because children are less likely to be suspected or convicted.” Moodley revealed that a child under 10 years old cannot be jailed for such crime, but he or she can be removed from the public and put into a diversion programme. “Parents or adults using children for crime can be charged and taken to court for neglect and exploitation of the child. The community can be of assistance by reporting such crime activities so that they can be investigated. We can also offer assistance and support to individuals in need,” she said. Moodley advised that if the case is brought to their attention they can intervene, assess the situation and provide help to the family. “Early intervention could also make the victim and perpetrator aware of their actions and consequences. This may deter them from committing such crimes. The abuse of children is viewed as a very serious case and as such should be a shared responsibility,” she added. Adeshini Naicker of Childline KZN, said that adults use children because in defense they will insist they were unaware that the child was stealing. “In a case like this, the child is not at an age to be prosecuted. Adults also resort to using kids because people are more trusting of children,” she said. Naicker added that the long-term emotional trauma and effect on these children is tremendous. “Very often these children progress into adult offenders. For those who are able to break free and seek help it is a long road to recovery from a habit they were grimes to be believe is acceptable,” she said.