With the second wave of the Coronavirus, cleanliness is paramount, however, at KwaMathambo Informal Settlement in Redhill, residents claim the eThekwini Municipality’s failure to provide them with waste skips can cost them their lives. They say this has resulted in heaps of garbage bags lying around the roadside posing health hazards to residents. The community is dumping waste in an open space creating a breeding ground for rats, flies and mosquitoes. Speaking to the Durban North News, Ndodeni Dengo, community leader of the settlement said that the heaps of garbage are an eyesore and can cause health problems for them. He said that since the settlement has approximately 350 shacks, the population makes it very had to maintain the garbage which is collected only once a week. “Unfortunately, due to the many shacks in close proximity of each other, no vehicle can come inside the settlement which makes it difficult for everyone to bring all the rubbish to the drop point on the exact date. Thus, all the left garbage is stuffed near the roadside in hopes that the truck will collect on the following date,” he said. Dengo said that illegal dumping has also been taking place in the area. “Illegal dumping is a huge problem where you find chairs and beds dumped on the roadside. As residents, we are aware that such actions poses a health hazard, but we have no option,” Dengo added. A resident of KwaMathambo who did not want to be named said that she blames the municipality for not providing them with skips. “As you can see, the environment is turning into a breeding area for various bacteria causing diseases as the municipality fails to provide us with skippers. “The garbage is there for a whole week. It is sad to live in a dirty environment like this,” she said. Dr Bobby Maharajh, ward 34 councillor also blames the municipality for not providing skippers for these residents. He claimed it was an ongoing issue that has been addressed but the municipality fail to provide with skips. Maharajh said that the issue started long before and the response he got from Durban Solid Waste (DSW) was that “skips have been the core issue of dumped foetuses”. “Firstly, the size of the informal settlement is the problem itself. Four years ago, we did a clean-up which took us a whole day to finish where we collected more than four turns of trucks each one making two trips. The garbage that comes out the informal settlements is enormous,” Maharajh said. He said that the issue will be addressed again in the following meeting with hopes that they can have an agreement with DSW. “People need to be educated about the skips and what not to put inside them. “Not allowing people to have a safe place to place their garbage is totally wrong and takes away their right to clean and safe healthcare,” added Maharajh. Dengo added that should the agreement with DSW be fruitful, they hope to build a playground for the children since they already have a vegetable garden. No comment was received from the municipality at the time of going to print.