After 60 years in the industry, Playtex an underwear manufacturer, trading under Hanes South Africa, has shut its doors and has left its employees with nowhere to go and some with no food on the table. Employees allege that they were notified three days before they were due to return to work after the December holidays, that the company had filed for liquidation and that employees should not return to work. It is further alleged that more than 700 workers are still waiting for communication from the company after the last SMS they received, to know what the future holds for them. According to an employee at the Playtex Jacobs site, the liquidators were appointed on 13 January and they are in the legal process of liquidation. It is alleged that the company has not sent any communication on what will happen to the staff to date. Staff were only told that they would receive more information before the end of February. Patricia Murugasen, 58, who has worked for the manufacturer since 1999 said that she was away on holiday when she got the message. “I was on holiday in Cape Town when I got the message. It was so shocking and unexpected as I was preparing to return to work.” Murugasen said that it’s sad that when they closed for the holidays they never got to say farewell to their fellow colleagues. “I do not know where I will find another job. I have a family to feed. We left some of our personal belongings at the plant and now we can’t even go to the premises to fetch them. It is really unfair,” she added. Murugasen said that a few days ago staff received a message from the union notifying them that they will be called in for meetings with the liquidator in the next few day, however, not all the staff will be brought in at the same time. “We will be called in groups and the process will be explained to us. We are just waiting.” Hanes SA released a statement which read: “After careful consideration, the board of HSA has decided to file for creditors voluntary liquidation as it believes this will be the best outcome for staff and other affected parties. The decision to file for liquidation follows the placing in business rescue of a major client of the business, as well as the ongoing poor economic conditions in South Africa, which have been exacerbated by the impact of Covid-19. We are committed to ensuring our employees are treated fairly and that they will receive all termination rights in respect of South African labour laws.” The statement further read that all its activities were suspended with immediate effect and the premises were closed till further notice. Hanes SA said that a liquidator was appointed by the middle of January and that affected parties will be contacted once additional information becomes available. Another employee who has also worked for the company for three decades as a machinist said the company’s actions were unfair. “We depended on our jobs. Where are we expected to go now? All companies are under strain and will not be hiring new people. What is going to happen to us?” The machinist said that they never saw this coming. “When tracing back on the events before closing for holidays it seemed like other people knew that this would be happening,” alleged the machinist. “It seems as if people in management level knew about this. One lady who worked as a simplest just resigned in November after working for Playtex for a very long time. Everyone was wondering why she left. In the week of closure our director closed a day or two before us and next we heard he was going to Spain with his family,” alleged the machinist. The machinist said it is unbelievable and unfair. “If we were notified in time we could have saved up for this period. Now we have to take our kids back to school and most of us can’t as there is no money. We only received a week’s pay in January. We really do not know what is going to happen,” said the employee. On Thursday, 4 February, Tabloid Newspapers received a response from Hanes SA’s PR agency which read: “Hanes South Africa are committed to ensuring the best possible outcome for its staff and will ensure it meets all legal and statutory obligations.” This is a developing story and updates will follow as more information becomes available.