After 37 years of service, Greyhound has decided to shut its doors. The luxury coach liner announced its closure today, 3 February, saying that their services will run until 14 February and thereafter will close completely. This follows the recent announcement by Musica, which is affiliated to The Clicks Group South Africa, that the Musica stores will officially be closing their doors on 31 May. The reason for Greyhound’s closure has not been confirmed, however, on the group’s Facebook page a post said that it was due to the company having suffered a great loss because of Covid-19 lockdown and it would not be able to recover.  Greyhound’s Facebook page and twitter feed was flooded with comments from clients who had bought return tickets to various destinations, some even out of South Africa. According to a Tweet from GreyhoundRSA all passengers who had pre-booked tickets for travel after 14 February, will be refunded for the cost of the ticket. A loyal Durban client said: It is a very sad thing to see Greyhound closing after 37 years. This means a lot of people are going to lose their jobs because it’s such a huge company, which had staff from different departments, from drivers, ticket office cashiers, security guards etc. With Covid-19 still around, I can’t blame the company because a lot of people stopped traveling so obviously they weren’t making profit anymore. My heart breaks for those who were breadwinners and now they have lost monthly income.” Another customer said: “I’m really saddened to hear GreyhoundSA is discontinuing its operations. I have had unforgettable good memories traveling on the buses.” The response from Greyhound has been the same on all their social networks, that all customers should contact the contact centre on 011 611 8000 or 087 352 0352 or email refunds@greyhound.co.za for assistance before 31 March. Musica, the entertainment ‘go-to’ store for music items such as CD’s, DVD’s and electronics amongst others, released a statement saying that the Musica brand had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic which resulted in a rapid decline in foot traffic in destination malls where music stores are typically located. According to the Clicks Group: “Musica has been operating in a declining market for several years owing to the structural shift globally to the digital consumption of music, movies and games from the traditional physical format. In the stores which have been closed since September 2020, the Musica staff have been absorbed into the group´s expanding health and beauty store network. Management is committed to accommodating the remaining staff within the group where this is operationally feasible. ” The Group said further details on the financial and operational impact of Musica´s closure will be communicated to shareholders with the release of the group´s interim results in April. Attempts made to contact both companies head offices for further comments were unsuccessful. This is a developing story and updates will follow.