The vile stench emanating from a fire which started on 23 January at the Illovu landfill site has once again breezed into surrounding suburbs of Warner Beach, Winkelspruit, Umgababa and as far as Doonside near Amanzimtoti. Frustrated residents voiced concerns online as the heaps continued to smoulder despite ongoing interventions from Durban Solid Waste (DSW) and Illovu landfill management in liaison with ward 97 councillor, Andre Beegte. Beegte said: “A suspected hot load being dumped, usually ash with the dumper being either unaware, not declaring or it being unobserved, was said to be the cause of the fire. Exceptionally hot conditions, enhancing gas releasing, and smaller weekend staff, resulted in the fire spreading in record time.” In an overview document detailing landfill management at the Illovu site, Logan Moodley, senior engineer at DSW, said: “Landfill gas (CH4 and CO2) can cause explosions and fire hazards due to emissions from degrading organic waste.” The same report states that the Illovu site, designed in 2006 and implemented in June 2014, only had a design life of 35 years for the 30 hector plot. According to residents, this is the second major fire in the last three years at the landfill. Zinhle Zulu, a resident, said: “The fire has been burning for a couple of weeks now, the stench is too much.” Her sentiments were echoed by another resident, Shaun Pillay. He said: “I am concerned about the gases being released into the air with this fire burning. The smell alone is awful and we are not even that close to the site. Hopefully this will be sorted soon and prevented from happening again.” In a detailed response to the situation, Beegte noted delays from unfavourable wind patterns, light rain increasing smoldering and muddy, congested landfill roadways inaccessible to heavy-duty support machinery. He said that the DSW team and management have been working from 7am to 8pm since the start in efforts to subdue the burning waste. After discussions between engineers, DSW and Illovu site management, Beegte confirmed that additional resources would be availed on 26 January to deliver sand and snuff out smoldering heaps to the “no quick fix” dilemma. On 27 January, one resident took to social media, saying: “Someone has to take note that this landfill is not being properly controlled. Once again someone is earning a salary and not doing the job that he or she is being paid for. Every thing that is being dumped there should be accounted for. It’s totally unacceptable that our rates are once again, being misused.”
Beegte explained: “While the western (inland) bank is already successfully contained, the challenge remains the eastern (coastal) side; with it being exceptionally high and steep, resulting in refuse needing relocation elsewhere on site to construct access for the graders & tipper trucks bringing in sand loads, as water creates even more smoke in effect operations can only continue while the wind blows east or towards Kingsburgh, Illovo and Amanzimtoti, thus making the fire site accessible.” He added, “Contrary to speculation, there was no negligence from officials or deliberate burning of plastics that resulted in the current situation and neither is it an ongoing problem from a couple of weeks ago, however is a similar incident albeit unknown what the dumped commodities were in either instance.” Mandla Nsele, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, said that the Cleansing and Solid Waste and the fire department have been on site to ensure that the fire is put out completely. He said: “The unit engaged with an environmental officer to assist in mitigating the health impacts on the community and he can be reached on 039 973 0850. Furthermore, the City has appointed an environmental specialist to carry out Air Quality Monitoring who will determine the extent of the impact the fire has made on the environment and the community. The site has been further resourced to manage the current incident and to minimise risk of recurring fires on the site.” For any queries related to the site, please contact the site civil engineer Ziphelele Zuma on
031 322 514.