According to a statement released by the provincial government, the council’s latest report on the Covid-19 infection rate in KwaZulu-Natal paints a bleak picture of approaching danger as five districts in the province, including the Amajuba District, have crossed the third-wave line.  The report attributed the rise in infections due to lack of adherence to Covid-19 protocol and the world as we know it has changed tremendously; suddenly coming to a standstill. “As we are in this third wave, we are reminded that Covid-19 does not discriminate among celebrities, sports stars, politicians, millionaires or the poor. However, the worst hit are the poor and the daily wage-earners who do not have the option of working from home. When it comes to care, your survival depends on your ability to stay away from the virus and the thickness of your wallet. Covid-19 has exposed a sad economic inequality, and our town is in dire need,” said retired matron, Mavis Ndlovu. Meanwhile, a group of caring Newcastle residents have heeded the call in their hearts and are trying their best to help the community. Faizel and Razia Cassim together with Dr Bradley Maistry and Pastor Nevillle Maistry of the Wesley Maistry Foundation, pharmacist Ismail Kharwa, Aunty Fazeela Rasool, Jodi Sumair, Trivs Ambulance Services and a few others who declined to be named have seen and experienced first-hand how the people of Newcastle are suffering as the Delta variant wreaks havoc. The group have banded together since the beginning of lockdown to assist Covid-19 positive patients with oxygen, food, drips and medicine to provide some sort of relief. Speaking to the Newcastle Express, Razia Cassim could not hold back her tears when relating stories of how people are suffering and dying as a result of the pandemic. “Every day we get calls from people who need oxygen, nebulisers, medication and even food hampers. It is heart-breaking to see,” she said. Dr Bradley Maistry who earlier this year lost his eldest brother, Dr Wesley Maistry, to Covid-19, gave a chilling account as to the strain that hospitals are placed under. “Being a Covid survivor, I can tell you how absolutely scary it is to lie in a hospital bed and not know if you will ever see the outside world again. It is as if one can feel death in the corridors. With me being a doctor I can see the strain that is faced by our medical staff. Through the Wesley Maistry Foundation, in honour of my late brother, we provide hospitals with water – just one of our many services,” said Dr Bradley. He went on to explain that using supplemental oxygen as part of Covid-19 treatment can cause a patient to feel thirsty due to a dry mouth. Nurses are overwhelmed at the moment and cannot always pour water for the patients – some of which who are so weak that a simple act of sitting up to pour themselves a glass of water can prove too much of a task. “So by donating bottled water, the patient will not have to be tasked with pouring water into a glass. This simple act of kindness is something that patients are very thankful for,” Dr Bradley explained. Pharmacist Ismail Kharwa said that the need for concentrators and oxygen is great. “Between us, we have a total of fifteen concentrators that we give out to the public at no cost, which they can keep for six to seven days. Thereafter, if the patient is still not well then hospitalisation is required,” said Kharwa. Kharwa added that residents also need to remember that prevention is better than cure and that they should sanitise, wash their hands, keep a safe distance from the next person and not go out unnecessarily. Pastor Neville Maistry reiterated the need for water. “Bottled water is important – oxygen and concentrators – we also give out medical packs for those who are suffering from Covid-19. It can be very overwhelming at times to try and help everybody, but I was reminded of a story… There was a man who found thousands of shellfish washed up on the shore and he tried putting them back in the ocean one at a time. Another person, who was watching him, approached him and said that he is wasting his time – there are thousands of shellfish here and he cannot possibly save them all. So the man who was rescuing the shellfish picked up one, put it back into the ocean and as it swam away, he said ‘but I saved that one’. Every life counts, every little act of kindness that you do will impact someone. One bottle of water will help somebody for a day. So no matter the quantity of the donation, it will help a person,” said Pastor Maistry. The group is appealing to the public and businesses for assistance. With your help, more lives can be saved. There is a need for bottled water, oxygen concentrators, oxygen bottles, nebulisers, humidifiers, vaporisers, Covid vitamins and supplements and anything else to help people fight the virus. If you would like to assist Kindly contact Razia Cassim on 074-285-0243. Alternatively you can make a donation to the Wesley Maistry Foundation, a non-profit organisation which offers assistance to those who cannot afford medical care. First National Bank Dr Wesley Maistry Foundation Acc number 62886827149 Branch code 255355