A family was left traumatised after a fire broke out in their flat on 73 Browns Avenue in Sydenham on Monday, 5 July. A mother, who was at work when the fire broke out, said she received a call from the neighbours informing her that her home was on fire. “I quickly rushed home as my biggest worry was my three children who were left with their aunty. When I got home, I saw that the blaze had engulfed one of the bedrooms burning everything inside, including my daughter’s wardrobe and bed. All her clothes were burnt leaving her with what she was wearing,” said Pretty Gasa. She said when she went inside, she found that her five-year-old son had locked himself in the bathroom where he thought he was safe. “The blaze was already heading to the bathroom and I was forced to break the door to save his life. Fortunately, he was not harmed and I was able to save him. The fire department was called to put the fire out and when they did they never said whether the house was safe for us to be inside. My biggest concern is where will I take my children as the entire house is covered in smoke,” Gasa said. A neighbour, who also witnessed the fire, said attempts to stop the fire failed as there is no fire extinguisher in the building and no taps for them to at least connect a hose pipe. The neighbour said she and Gasa had been to the flat letting agency, who allegedly informed them that the maintenance of the building is their top priority. The Springfield Weekly Gazette spoke to Ward 31 Councillor, Charmaine Clayton, who said she would do all within her means to assist the family. “For now, all I can do is post on the community social media groups to see if anyone can assist. I am unable to leave my house due to an injury.” EThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Mandla Nsele, said, “Our Disaster Management Department will be sending a team to investigate and see how we can assist the family.” Attempts to get comments from the flat’s letting agency telephonically were made, however, there was no answer. The family is appealing for the community to assist. Gasa can be contacted on 073-626-5574.