As part of testing the Go!Durban system, the eThekwini Municipality has unveiled new larger bus traffic signals. Traffic light bus symbols at 10 station intersections along the C3 route have also been switched on.  The C3 route of the Integrated Rapid Public Transport Network, known as Go!Durban, runs from Pinetown’s Central Business District through New Germany, Clermont, KwaDabeka, Newlands and Avoca to KwaMashu’s Bridge City. Mandla Nsele from the eThekwini Municipality’s Communications Unit said motorists are requested to familiarise themselves with the new traffic signal systems which include periodic live signalling during the testing and commissioning period. “The traffic signals are simple to follow and can be identified in three parts, namely traffic signal (pole structure), traffic signal light colours (green, amber and red), and traffic signal light symbols (arrows, solid light and bus),” he said. He added that the sign above a traffic signal indicates the directional movement controlled by that traffic signal. “Traffic signal light colours. For traffic signal light colours, the usual road rules apply. The traffic light colours become important for right-turning vehicles (shown by the directional movement signage above the traffic signal), as they will be turning into the path of the bus, which is located in the median of the intersection. If motorists disobey the traffic signal light colour rules, they could potentially place their vehicle in the direct line of an oncoming bus,” said Nsele. He added that emphasis is placed on the new larger traffic signal, which has a sign above it that reads “Bus” which has been switched on. “It has a bus light symbol instead of an arrow or solid light. This traffic signal, bus light symbol, and light colours only apply to the Go!Durban buses traveling within the dedicated bus lanes,” he said. Nsele concluded by saying that eThekwini Transport Authority will distribute information and embark on activations on the overall road safety of Go!Durban in line with Covid-19 protocols.