The Durban North NPO, Domino Foundation continues to reach out to the students who are living with disabilities, who cannot afford to pay for their tuition fees. The organisation said five young people on The Domino Foundation’s skills development programme have faced various challenges, not least of all the disabilities which have put certain academic achievements beyond their reach. However, each displays a tenacity and desire to step beyond their disability and reach out and care for others. The skills development is helping them to get training in childcare assistance through Khulisani, a Qualifying Small Enterprise (QSE) which trains and creates employment for people living with disabilities. Nobuhle Ndlovu, who heads up skills development at Domino, said, “It warms my heart to see these young people determined to surmount the obstacles in their lives.” The students are in a one-and-a-half month skills programme learnership covering the key elements of early childhood development and the fundamental skills to turn around education and, consequently, people’s lives in South Africa. One of the quintet, Silindokuhle Sibisi, was enthusiastic about the course. “We love the little children and we are learning so much about how to care for them.” She said she is enjoying learning how to use playtime so that they learn at the same time. Professor Hlela, the sole male in the group, added, “I am expecting my child to be born soon and learning about safety and how to feed babies is important to me.” Ziningi Msimang, a facilitator at Khulisani, commenting on how well the students were doing, said, “They will be completing their studies soon and we would love to see each one of them in a rewarding job where they can use what they have learnt through Khulisani. If prospective employers wish to offer them positions, Khulisani can provide coaching and mentoring support services including sensitisation workshops and accessibility audits.” Ndlovu can be contacted through skills@domino.org.za or 031-563-9605.