A Savannah Park family has extended their heartfelt gratitude towards their local branch of the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) for their assistance in securing the family a water bill write-off of around R90 000. The Mica Street residents, Priscilla and Dan Ramlugan, said that after seeking assistance for their water query for months on end, their pleas fell upon the IFP offices and were successful in getting a write-off on their bill. They said: “We were always turned away or told that nothing could be done. Our daughter in-law, Samantha, went to the IFP office in Chatsworth and met with Pastor Selvan Govender, shared our situation and received positive assurance that the party would do everything they can to assist. She said that she never received a reception like that at any other institution that she had previously approached.” The pair were overcome with joy when they received the R90 000 write-off. “We are glad to say that the IFP have come through for us. It did take a while but eventually we received a R90 000 write-off on our water arrears. We are overjoyed with the outcome and are eternally grateful to Govender and the IFP team for going above and beyond to assist us as residents of this community. We will go out of our way to fly the IFP flag high. We Trust them,” they said. Govender, Area Manager of the IFP in Chatsworth, said that the IFP was glad to assist the family who can now go about their life stress-free. “As KwaZulu-Natal’s official opposition, we want to assist residents and our doors are open to everyone. We work tirelessly to achieve results that will be satisfactory to the community. Our Chatsworth team has really grown from strength to strength under the leadership of Honourable Member of Provincial Legislature, Les Govender. We have activists and their teams in every ward in Chatsworth assisting residents with various complaints and concerns,” said Govender. For more information, visit the IFP offices at 200 Florence Nightingale Drive, Westcliff, from 9am to 4pm weekdays and 9am to 1pm on Saturdays. Alternatively call them on 031-350-3125 or 074-458-9804.