For those living on Edmundsberry Street, Tongaat, blackouts have become the norm as they battle to have the eThekwini Municipality permanently resolve their problems of power supply and illegal connections that continuously plunge them into darkness. The community recently met with their councillor, Dolly Munien, to discuss what progress has been made and other ways forward. This as hundreds of metres of electrical wires run from power boxes and light poles on Edmundsberry Street to the nearby informal settlement. The effects of these unsafe connections mean ratepayers suffer electricity disruptions and, at times, intimidation by those connecting illegally. These disruptions result in the malfunction of appliances, loss of food due to fridges not working and cause a security risk. Vasantha Munsamy, a resident, said the situation has worsened over the years. “It’s getting violent to the point where they want to burn our houses. They come out with knives, guns, garden picks and hammers. They dig on the road to get to the cables and there isn’t much we can do.” Munsamy said due to her condition she requires insulin regularly and without electricity to power her fridge it all spoils. “It’s not just medication but groceries as well. Within the year we lost around R8 000 in spoilt food. Nobody is going to compensate us for this.” Edmundsberry Street ratepayer and representative, Jaysen Govender, said residents often go weeks without power and this puts a lot of strain on the elderly. “Without electricity people cannot use the essential medical equipment or even have hot water in their homes. We are law abiding citizens who pay our rates yet we cannot enjoy the fruits of this. Those in the informal settlement don’t even respect the lockdown regulations set out by government. The curfew is 9pm yet they party into the early hours of the morning with free electricity. They’re just taking advantage of the situation.” Govender said the municipality and councillor need to come up with permanent solutions to the problem. “Whenever there’s a power outage the municipality repairs the fault and then they’re gone. Those in the informal settlement just wait for the authorities to go and are back in no time to connect their electricity again illegally.” He said when people are connecting illegally the community is encouraged not to confront them. “I’ve seen how violent they can be. They are very intimidating and we advise the community not to confront them but rather call the police.” One of the solutions brought to council was to close a thoroughfare frequently used by those in the informal settlements. “But they said this cannot be done due to the thoroughfare being an ‘escape’ in case of an emergency,” said Govender. Councillor Dolly Munien said residents have complained about power outages and with the impending weather, exposed cables can become an extreme hazard. “There has been a constant pattern with electrocution and deaths and it is this time of the year that we experience a spike in exposed wires as more connections are made to overcome cold weather. Ratepayers’ household appliances are directly affected and over the years numerous families have experienced massive shortages and spikes due to overburdened circuits. This causes irreparable damages and heavy costs. Fridges and freezers are affected too. Food supplies are lost in this process.” The eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Mandla Nsele, said: “The City is currently constructing a housing development in the said area. The City’s Electricity Department will move in to continue with electrification once this is complete.”