Symphonia for South Africa’s flagship programme, Partners for Possibility (PfP), will launch a new cohort of business-education partnerships in KwaZulu-Natal this July. The organisation said over the next 12 months, the principals of KwaZulu-Natal schools will partner in a collaborative and practical leadership journey with business leaders from the region. “Through these partnerships, principals will gain the requisite skills needed to confidently lead change and mobilise communities around their schools, while business leaders will be able to hone their own leadership skills within a complex and challenging school environment,” said the organisation. According to Akhona Ngcobo, founder and managing director of KYA Consulting, this launch forms part of Symphonia for South Africa’s plan to reach another 246 under-resourced schools in South Africa in 2021. Since its inception in 2010, PfP has extended its footprint to major metropolitan cities and remote areas in all nine of South Africa’s provinces. She said, to date, over 1 400 schools have been positively impacted. “Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the programme will be rolled out virtually using various digital communication platforms. The programme will provide solutions to both the private and public sectors in enterprise and social development, as well as transformation management. The programme features the key elements of professional coaching, five days of world-class training workshops over the course of the year, practical leadership development exposure in a marginalised South African school and regular learning and networking opportunities for principals and business leaders,” Ngcobo added. An avid believer in holistic human development, Ngcobo is also a certified Life Coach. She is an organisational and leadership development specialist with a key focus on transformation coaching and leadership development. She also has vast experience in stakeholder management, enterprise development, and strategy development.  Ngcobo has successfully facilitated a number of PfP partnerships in Durban over the past two years. If you are a socially-conscious business leader who would like the opportunity to contribute to education through a partnership with a principal from an under-resourced school please contact Dorcas@Symphonia.net or visit www.PfP4SA.org for more information.