The Pietermaritzburg Murder and Robbery Unit, Bergville Police and Ladysmith SAPS together with members of the PMB Explosion Unit responded to a cash-in-transit heist along the R616 on Monday evening. A G4S AV security vehicle was ambushed and bombed between the Harmony Farm entrance and Geluksburg turn-off.  Motorists along the route said that vehicles travelling at the back or in front of the security vehicle had stopped immediately after a group of gunmen, travelling in a double-cab Mazda BT50 and a Ford Ranger with no registration numbers, opened fire on the vehicle. “All we could hear was a loud popping noise and a loud bang, I did not see much, only that I wanted to get away from the scene,” said one of the motorists. The G4S vehicle was travelling from Bergville and heading to Ladysmith. Police said 10 men, armed with rifles and pistols, dressed in blue and green overalls and wearing face masks forced the AV vehicle to stop. It is believed that between 40 and 50 shots were fired, some hitting the security vehicle. Bullets were also fired into one of  the AV’s tyres. The gunmen then surrounded the AV with their vehicles. As soon as the AV came to a standstill, the suspects approached the vehicle and ordered the occupants to get out. They were forced onto the ground and robbed of their firearms. Explosives were then placed in the AV to force open the vehicle so they could gain access to the money. The gunmen made off with an undisclosed amount of money, leaving the occupants unharmed. They were seen fleeing towards Bergville in the two vehicles used in the robbery. The scene was cornered off and motorists were asked to use alternate routes. Forensic officials gathered evidence on the outside of the crime scene and then awaited the arrival of the PMB Explosion Unit to assist as some of the explosives used did not explode and were still active. Once the scene was safe, the forensic team continued with their work. A case of cash-in-transit robbery is being investigated and police are still searching for the suspects.