Tongaat Legends have moved to the top of the log after Alvin Moonsamy Moodley scored a hat-trick in the master’s league, defeating Verulam Legends on their home turf, the Verulam Recreational Grounds. Although it was a slow start, excitement quickly grew as Martha Narainsamy from Verulam crossed a pinpoint ball from an acute angle to striker, Avril Chetty, who shot a thunderous ball towards the goal mouth but the Tongaat goalkeeper, Brando Naidoo, tipped the ball over the crossbar denying the home team from taking an early lead. This started to anger the Tongaat supporters and from the outside, coach Ronnie Gabriel, started to tongue-lash the players and within minutes they took control of the game. The game changed in favour of Tongaat as they continued to threaten the opposition’s defence and in the 19th minute Agar Chetty passed a through-ball to Moonsamy who dribbled two defenders and scored a soft goal in the right corner to give them the lead. The inspiring goal led Tongaat midfielder, Archie Singh, to push forward and pass the ball to Cliffy Govender who was fouled in the box. Without hesitation the referee immediately blew for a penalty. Moonsamy converted and scored the second goal. At the interval the score was 2-0 with Tongaat the better of the two sides. In the 63rd minute Verulam’s Avril Chetty scored a thunderous goal increasing the margin. As the game progressed the Tongaat midfielder’s pinpoint through-balls were wasted by the Tongaat strikers who failed to convert goal-scoring opportunities. With the Verulam team’s morale shattered, Tongaat Legends cruised into the final minutes winning the match 3-0. Although tempers flared and the competition was fierce both teams agreed that it was a joyous day. However, due to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement that the country will be moving into alert level 4 the South African Football Association will be suspending all football tournaments. Ward 61 sports committee member, Bear Pillay, said, “It is a shame that tournaments will be postponed as all involved have a great day on the field. The outcome of the matches do not matter. It’s all about the game. However, we all need to adhere to the restrictions set out by government to stop the spread of this virus.”