Last week people across the country bore witness to some of the most destructive and chaotic times in post-apartheid history in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng.  During this civil unrest many barricaded entry and exit points to their homes and on Tuesday, 13 July, while standing on the frontline in Trenance Park, Verulam, 18-year-old Faybian Moodley was caught in a crossfire between his community and alleged looters trying to make their way in. What started as a demonstration to release former president, Jacob Zuma, from prison, quickly turned into mass destruction and wide-scale looting around the province. With the lack of police presence and the situation growing volatile many residents took up their own protective measures by barricading entry and exit points to their neighbourhoods using tires, wood and other materials. Moodley stood with his community for three days before being tragically struck down by a bullet.  Akshay Jaganath, operations manager from SBA Protect, was among the first to respond. “For us on duty it was like going to war in Iraq. It was something we didn’t expect. Many of our members were stoned, shot and had their vehicles damaged. The situation was very tense but many circumstances were out of our control. We received many messages that Monday and Tuesday telling us the looting will continue. However, there was also a lot of old and fake news circulating on WhatsApp. We did everything we could to prepare. Unfortunately sometimes there isn’t much one can do.” Tiara Samson, a family friend of Moodley, recalls some of her fondest memories with him. She said: “Faybian was a street-smart person. He wasn’t one to sit behind a desk. He was the best brother anyone could ask for – overprotective, caring and understanding. He looked at all the girls in the community as his sisters and those were the people that mattered most to him. He poured out unconditional love and he will definitely be missed in this community.”  Another community member, Nadine Govender, said she and Moodley would spend time together everyday. “There wasn’t a day that passed where we hadn’t spoken to each other. It may sound cliché but he was genuinely one of the best guys from the neighbourhood. As young as he was, he was respected by everyone.” Govender said while Moodley grew up “the way boys do” he never did anything that would cause harm to another. “He was such a good soul and a person like him deserves a hero’s farewell. He chose to be on the frontline because of his protective nature and I know that he will still be watching over us.” According to the latest statistics from the SAPS, 212 people died during the unrest period; with KZN accounting for 180 of those fatalities. A number of which are being investigated as murders. By the time of print, the police had yet to confirm if Moodley’s death was among those being investigated as a murder case. Moodley was laid to rest on Tuesday, 20 July, at the Woodview Cemetery.