Durban North educators have welcomed the first phase of the Johnson & Johnson vaccination roll-out, which kick-started on a high note at Moses Mabhida People’s Park on Wednesday, 23 June. Emma Pennefather, a Grade 4 educator from Chelsea Preparatory School, said the experience was exciting. “Everything was sort of rushed because we were told on a Tuesday that we were going for our jabs. We went into the schoolbus and everything was nicely set up. There were rows of chairs leading up to the station where we had to give our information.” Pennefather said even though she was happy to have finally received her vaccination, she did however experience side-effects. “Unfortunately, I was one of the teachers who had the after-effects and I was sent home on Thursday, but on Friday I was feeling much better and came back to work,” she added. Grant Maartens, the school principal, said the educators were relieved that the vaccination roll-out started. Maartens said out of the 104 of the staff that works at the Chelsea Preparatory School, 33 of the 104 received their Johnson & Johnson jabs on Wednesday. “It was only the state staff that received the vaccination. In the next round, once all of the state staff have been vaccinated, staff that are employed by the school governing body will follow in the next batch of vaccines,” he added. Speaking on the whole experience of the vaccination, Maartens said the DoE was organised. “Whatever station you got to, you literally spent two or three minutes at each station registering and checking IDs and our medical aid details,” he added.  Craig Balt, HOD of the school, said, “When we finally got registered at Moses Mabhida, we got the shots and they made us wait for about 15 minutes before we could leave the site. After the vaccines, I didn’t have any side-effect, however, the next morning it was a different story. I had dizziness, very bad headaches, I had chest pains as well. Over the course of the day they disappeared very slowly and I’m feeling much better.” Balt did agree that even though he was part of the people who were sceptical about the vaccination, he did his homework and at the end of the day the process was easy. “We enjoyed the day being out there and in terms of the side-effects we knew that they were coming which made it a bit worse because we were waiting for it to happen. I would say to anyone who is doubting to go, to just get vaccinated. It is not as bad as what you read in the papers, it’s a lot easier,” he added.