Muslims for Humanity in KwaZulu-Natal provided relief to  communities following the recent looting that left many without basic necessities in the province. The distribution of bread and milk to community residents have been taking place in St Thomas Road at the Musgrave Mosque, NMJ Hall in Henry Road and at the Al Ansaar Foundation in West Road.  “Overnight, access to basic commodities such as bread and milk was cut off, as citizens of all living standards tried to comprehend the limitation to provisions, their cautious anxiety rapidly escalated to panic with stores being looted or unable to open due to safety concerns. It no longer mattered whether one was Prince or Pauper, you simply could not access basic commodities no matter how much wealth you possessed,” said the organisation’s executive committee in a statement. Muslims for Humanity, an umbrella body formed in 2020 during Level 5 Covid-19 lock-down to assist in removing duplication of charitable efforts and allowing donor funding to be stretched further, and a co-ordinator for triage facilities in KZN during the devastating second wave of the pandemic, is assisting in co-ordinating relief work through its affiliation with NMJ, various other non- governmental or non-profit organisations, and other communal mosques. “We have stepped in to assist in sourcing and distributing basic commodities, whilst the authorities work towards reopening the economy and restoring peace to the affected areas. This allows for calmness to replace the anxiety created by the lack of access to basic commodities,” the committee further stated. The organisation said with the stores reopening, many people don’t have to wait for hours in queues to purchase restricted quantities of basic commodities.  “As such Muslims for Humanity has limited its efforts to the provision of bread, milk, baby formula and nappies, our efforts have covered the greater Durban area from Isipingo in the south through to Phoenix in the north and Pinetown in the West. The situation remains fluid, the needs of the community can change quite quickly. We pray to the Almighty to return peace to our country, and accept the efforts of all of those expending their time and effort to assist those impacted,” the committee said, further urging those who wish to assist to contact  their representatives. If you would like to contact the organisation, you can call the below numbers :  Kaka 083-567-8960, Shoaib Moosa 083 678 6559, Zahid Fakey 082 786 7800 or Kim Jooma 083 786 7079.