Trying to do his bit to protect his loved ones and the community amidst the rampant violent unrest in Phoenix, the family of ailing Charclay husband and grandfather, Ganesh Naidoo, 61, claims that he died a hero after he was mercilessly shot dead while patrolling the Clayfield area on foot at the height of the riots, last Monday. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Naidoo’s nephew, Alvin Gangiah, 36, hailed his uncle as a hero who died protecting his loved ones and the community as he wanted to be proactive during the violence that threatened his hometown. “Being a pensioner, uncle Ganesh did not want to sit by idly while the violence broke out in Phoenix. He joined the patrol team and even in his sick state he said he will patrol the streets. We never knew that his good heart will cost him his life. He was elderly and those gunmen could see that but they had no mercy,” said Gangiah. “Uncle Ganesh and other patrollers were keeping an eye on vehicles entering the area in the vicinity of the Phoenix Muslim school. There was a white NP 200 vehicle which was approaching and appeared to have four occupants including a female inside. It is alleged that as the patrollers, including my uncle approached the vehicle, the gunmen opened fire and sprayed them with bullets. Uncle Ganesh died on scene. Two other patrollers sustained gunshot wounds. The armed gang abandoned their vehicle and fled on foot. Our family is in shock. Nothing prepared us for this loss. My uncle should have been comfortable in his house as he was sickly but because of all of this unrest he went out on the streets to help his community and lost his life in the process,” Gangiah added. “My uncle’s pension was the sole income in his household. His good deed to help has robbed him of his life and his family of their provider and loved one. This never should have ended like this. Uncle Ganesh was a dedicated Christian. He never missed a service in spite of his sickness. He was instrumental in encouraging the youth and inspired them in the field of sports. Justice must prevail. Those responsible for my uncle’s murder must be brought to book. His death cannot be in vain,” said Gangiah. Phoenix Community Police Forum chairperson, Umesh Singh, slammed the violence and killings, “One innocent life lost in this violent manner is one too many. We mourn with the bereaved family. We are a community that has been left shattered by the bloodshed and looting. We trying to pick up the pieces of our broken town and revive our desolate spirits. We commend the community for striving to protect Phoenix, its people and their families. We must remain within the ambits of the law and help police as they investigate the mayhem and murders in Phoenix.” Clayfield resident and avid crime-fighter, Leon Luckan, said Ganesh’s death was one of the many heartbreaking tragedies in the Phoenix community. “Ganesh tried to aid his fellow residents in the fight against criminal forces and paid with his life. The struggle has been real. There is no racial tension. It was just blatant criminality. Every community member who fought the fight on and behind the scenes are applauded for their commitment to protecting the residents of Phoenix.  We mourn the loss of Ganesh and every innocent resident of Phoenix whose lives were snuffed out by vile criminals. It is now time to rebuild our beautiful town and revive the spirit of its people,” said Luckan. Naidoo’s death was mourned by his wife, children, grandchildren and relatives as well as the community. Police comment was not forthcoming at the time of going to print.