Chatsworth residents were not spared from the violent riots and excessive looting engulfing the nation during what was dubbed as a ‘night of terror’ last night. Video footage of shopping outlets being looted went viral as well as clips of the looters proudly showing off their keepsakes. Residents and community leaders were left without a wink of sleep as they tried to ensure that loss was minimal amid the volatile attacks on stores and small businesses. Julian Moodley, chairperson of the Crossmoor Civic Association, described last night’s events as a catch-22 situation. He said: “The looting is a by-product of the faction-against-faction fight to #FreeZuma. When the protesters claimed that only white-owned enterprises would be targeted in these efforts supporting the movement, why have tuck shops and small businesses fallen victim to looting as well? They do not have insurance to bare the huge loss so why hurt the livelihood of innocent people?” Moodley urges residents to take a calculated decision on their ballots later this year. “From a purely apolitical view, these protesters are under poor leadership and we also cannot blame the councillor in this area as the issue escalated into such a mammoth situation that no one person alone can take it on. We were in high hopes that the president could have shed more light on these riots in his address and we are eagerly awaiting better guidance and governance on the matter. We encourage people to take an informed decision later on this year when casting their votes,” he said. According to Moodley, it was heart-breaking to hear the local brigadier plead for assistance in calming the volatile situation. He said: “Police were so thinly spread over the city and hearing all the cries for help felt like a dark cloud engulfing one’s soul. One could not help feel an immense sense of sadness and even tear up as the residents did not know what kind of Chatsworth we would wake up to in the morning.” In his response, Moodley said that the state of the nation was no longer a case of civil unrest and it was now a civil war. Shallcross crime watch groups rallied together with the community forum around the clock last night and commended all those involved in attempting to keep everyone safe. Manoj Anandhaw, chairperson of the DAAPS Crime Stoppers, said that their team stood off with the Shallcross Community Forum amid the looting. He said: “Yesterday, we saw people try to gain entry into OK from Wingen Walk and we are extremely grateful to the officer who assisted in getting them to retreat. We thank the police for trying their best to keep the situation at bay as best as they possibly can. After we stood off with the SCF, we then moved to the Ridge Shopping Mall and stood off at a distance while the looting occurred.” Anandhaw described the situation as a total violation. “These acts of looting in the name of freedom for former president Jacob Zuma is just disrespectful. It is a complete disregard for what the stalwarts of the ANC fought for and of the constitution of South Africa. It was once said that the nation will pray for the fall of the ANC just as how we prayed for the fall of the apartheid government. It is sad to say that we have now seen this statement become a reality,” he said. Mahendra Lilkan of the SCF extended his heartfelt appreciation to the dedicated members of the Shallcross CPF and patrollers for heeding the call for assistance and being out all night ensuring the safety of loved ones and homes. “May you all be blessed for your unselfish sacrifice,” he said. Meanwhile, residents are calling for the South African National Defence Force to be deployed in an effort to stop the looting completely.