Violence erupted throughout Phoenix and surrounding areas as protestors embarked on a #FreeJacobZuma Campaign on Sunday evening leading into the early hours of Monday morning. Several attempts were made by private security companies and SAPS to block all Phoenix borders however protestors were somehow able to make their way into the area. Various supermarkets were broken into and looted by the violent protestors while Phoenix residents feared the worst as most parts were covered in smoke and gunshots could be heard in the various areas.  The situation worsened to such an extent that private security company KZN VIP took to social media urging licensed firearm owners to get their weapons ready to defend themselves and families. “The situation in and around KZN is volatile at the moment with mass lootings and violence taking place,” said KZN VIP on the Facebook post. Stores such as Westham Checkout，Goolams，Mamba Stores and some businesses in the Phoenix Industrial Park were among businesses that were looted in the early hours of Monday morning. Some shops at the Southgate Mall were also looted by residents making their way from KwaMashu，Phoenix，Mount Moriah and Mount Royal areas. Various modes of public transport have been suspended until further notice. The Municipality，Santaco and Metrorail all issued statements suspending operations due to the current civil unrest. Veteran community leader, Ronnie Veeran said that the Director of the Acropolis Mall asked him to contact the major businesses in the Phoenix Plaza precinct with a view to getting private security with caspirs, etc to block off all entry points to the Phoenix CBD. “ Dr Barlow Govender (Acropolis Mall) is in liaison with the President’s Office and the Riot Unit to provide protection and this will help us who live around this vicinity. In the meantime rally around your neighbours and street committees / chat groups to discuss ways and means of protecting yourselves and conserving your resources in case of any unforeseen circumstances. Also please keep messages, videos and pics to the barest minimum so that we do not clog up our social media platforms in case we need to act fast,” said Veeran.