Whilst some in the country welcomed the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa of the extension of level 4 lockdown, others felt that the vaccination drive needed to be speeded up as it was a better way to counter the Coronavirus pandemic. This, after Ramaphosa announced on Sunday, 11 July, that the country will remain at Alert Level 4 for another 14 days, with adjustments allowing restaurants and gyms to re-open but the sale of alcohol is still prohibited. Ramaphosa said that this is due to the fast spreading Delta variant, and a third wave that is more severe than the first and second waves. He said that for the last two weeks, the country has consistently recorded an average of nearly 20,000 new cases daily, and at present, the country has over 200,000 active COVID-19 cases. In the last two weeks over 4,200 South Africans have lost their lives to COVID-19. Ramaphosa said that while Gauteng accounts for more than half of new infections, infections are rapidly increasing in the Western Cape, Limpopo, North West, KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga. Measures in place until 25 July Gatherings (Social, political, religious) remain prohibited. Curfew remains in place from 9pm until 4am, and only those with permission being allowed to leave their homes during this time. The sale of alcohol remains prohibited. Schools remain closed until 26 July. It is still mandatory to wear a mask that covers the nose and mouth in public. Adjustments to the Level 4 regulations:  Restaurants and eateries can operate with a maximum of 50 people at a time or, for smaller venues, not more than 50 per cent of normal capacity. Gyms and fitness centres, may open. Agricultural livestock and game auctions are allowed. Religious, social and political gatherings are still prohibited. Ramaphosa said the vaccination program is expanding at a rapid pace. To date, over 4.2 million people in South Africa have been vaccinated with government and the private sector working to vaccinate many more.  Both the 60+ and 50+ age groups are being vaccinated. From 15 July, 35+ age groups can register on the Electronic Vaccination Data System, to be vaccinated from 1 August. Essential workers to be vaccinated, starting with basic education, the police and the defense force.  The Department of Health is working with the private sector to implement workplace vaccination programs. Plans are in place to vaccinate either six or seven days of the week. Aspen will be delivering over 17 million Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses to South Africa and other African countries over the next three months, commencing in late July. This number will double monthly from October. United States is donating 15-20 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine to African countries through the COVAX facility. SAHPRA to approve the CoronaVac vaccine from China for use in South Africa. Ramaphosa also announced that the UIF COVID-19 TERS scheme will be extended to sectors that are affected by Level 4 restrictions. The details of the extension will be published shortly following the finalisation of the full scheme, and details on who is eligible. Business licenses and permits that expired between March 2020 and June 2021 will remain valid until 31 December 2022.  New business licenses or permits that are issued from 1 July will be valid until 31 December 2022, and no license fee will be payable.