“Phoenix is not racist”, “We want peace”, “We love our neighbours”, “We are all South Africans” and “All lives matter”, were some of the words expressed in demonstrations and peace initiatives in Phoenix on Mandela Day. The community united to promote peace and goodwill whilst embracing their neighbouring communities such as Bhambayi, Zwelisha, KwaMashu, Amaoti and Ntuzuma. Some of the peace initiatives held on Sunday, 18 July, were peace talks, demonstrations, light of peace with a motorcade and prayers for peace. The initiatives came as a result of the unrest, violence and tension that invaded KwaZulu-Natal in the recent week and that threatened to disrupt the peaceful relations that Phoenix and neighbouring communities have built up over the years. The peace talks, held at Gandhi Luthuli Peace Park, also commemorated the late former president Nelson Mandela’s birthday, who would have turned 103 years old on 18 July. Saroj Govender, war-room secretary of Operation Sukuma Sakhe (OSS) and member of the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) KZN working committee, said she requested the help of “soon-to-be-deputy-mayor” Diana Hoorzuk, who sought to restore peace and rebuild the once united communities of Phoenix and the neighbouring communities. Hoorzuk said she is standing with the people of Phoenix. She called for all national and main roads to be opened, that the Phoenix community had barricaded for protection against looters. This was due to the various fake voice notes and messages circulating via social media platforms that sparked fear in communities. She said social media cannot be shut down and urged people to vet messages before forwarding them. Hoorzuk heard from community members who claimed that media is biased in portraying the Indian community to be murderers and racists. They alleged that videos are being edited and the Indian community is being targeted. The community alleged that there are unmarked security vehicles entering Phoenix. The community asked what is being done about security for Phoenix as people felt threatened and unsafe due to a lack of police visibility hence the community sought to protect themselves in the unrest.  Hoorzuk said the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele and President Ramaphosa apologised as nobody envisaged that looting and violence would ensue. She said that 80 police officers were to be stationed in Phoenix with 10 detectives to investigate the deaths of 20 people killed in the unrest. Seelan Archary, a community leader of Ward 48, said the community is angry and are speaking out. He questioned why the army is being escorted by Metro Police. He said that peace, calm and stability will only happen with action on the ground. “Cele promised security on the ground, which was yet to be seen,” he said. A resident who lives opposite Bhambayi, but who did not want to be named, said the community did not attack Bhambayi residents during the unrest. Morgan Nair, chairperson of AMSA Phoenix said the government must provide security to the citizens who pay rates and taxes. “South Africa and KwaZulu-Natal must be safe for all.” He called for an action plan and for government to give feedback to the community. “How do we normalise relations between communities when we do not feel safe?” he asked. Nair alleged that there are only 350 policemen stationed at Phoenix SAPS. He claimed that the police station which services the neighbouring communities is too small and vehicles break down often. The community said if the army was deployed when promised by President Ramaphosa, then the situation would not have gotten out of control and lives would have been saved. Govender urged the communities not to look at each other in terms of race. Govender further elaborated on the meeting held with Minister Cele at the Amaoti Police Station on 18 July. “Cele informed the committee to deal with all matters moving forward, such as promoting peace in communities and identifying the deceased in mortuaries. It starts with each one of us to rebuild and restore the trust between communities and to remove the fear,” said Govender. At the Gandhi Luthuli Peace Park, one of the organisers of the peace demonstration and the motorcade, Nazira Bee Yasien, urged the community to stand in solidarity for peace. She asked why the leadership did not stop the looters from coming into Phoenix and looting. She said criminal activity in all communities cannot be condoned. “The community did not see the SAPS hence there was no guarantee that the police would protect our community. If our women and children are threatened with rape and murder should our men not react?” she asked. Yasien said she was at the barricades protecting her family and community. She said, “Groups of people from the neighbouring communities came to us at the barricades asking to be allowed to pass through to loot the Phoenix Plaza. If we allowed them in then they would have looted and vandalised the plaza and then our houses. Can our safety be assured? We acknowledge the CPF and a few policemen that helped us,” she said. The peace motorcade travelled through Phoenix and surrounding communities whilst residents stood outside their homes in support. Loud hooting could be heard as from the convoy. “Let us show the world that we are united and we can build our country up again. Let us stand up for our communities,” said the organisers. The residents of Courtvale in Ward 49 united in an interfaith prayer throughout the week to pray for peace in our beautiful land. Meanwhile the army is stationed in Phoenix from 18 July and will be moving around with the SAPS to all hotspots, until there is calm.