As infections continue to rise, the KwaZulu-Natal provincial government has intensified the monitoring of compliance with Covid-19 regulations.  On Thursday afternoon, the MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA), Ravi Pillay, together with MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni, embarked on unannounced compliance inspections at various establishments in uMhlanga. The EDTEA contingent site visits included restaurants, a retail supermarket and a hotel along the normally bustling Chartwell Drive. The inspections form part of the province’s new battle plan to counter rising Covid-19 infections as announced by Premier Sihle Zikalala in the week. The premier said the plan places a focus on hotspots and beefing law enforcement teams and operations throughout the province. Thursday evening’s compliance monitoring operation did not only focus on the enforcement of regulations but also served as an opportunity for the MECs to take stock of the impact of Covid-19 on businesses and tourism establishments.Both MECs expressed general satisfaction with the level of compliance by the businesses that were visited. “We have a combination of enforcement and compliance and being educative and supportive at the same time. On the side of compliance generally here in this area, it has been reasonably good. There is a business in this vicinity that was closed down months ago for non-compliance with licensing requirements and illegal sale of alcohol. That is just an example that there is no area that is exempt from compliance. “UMhlanga is a flagship tourist area and if there is non-compliance we have to enforce. But at the same time we have to educate and we are quite pleased with the reaction of managers,” said MEC Pillay. MEC Nkonyeni said the multi-disciplinary operation will become a regular feature in the province in the coming days and will be intensified to ensure compliance with alert level 4 regulations. “We will be going everywhere. We will be checking bus ranks and taxi ranks to ensure that people are really compliant with Covid-19 alert level 4 regulations,” said MEC Nkonyeni. The MECs later joined law enforcement officers in a roadblock on the busy M4 highway. During the roadblock, 180 vehicles were stopped in less than two hours resulting in 27 prosecutions for different traffic offences. These range from drivers caught driving unlicensed vehicles, driving without driving licences and driving unroadworthy vehicles. MEC Nkonyeni said the roadblock also focused on ensuring that public transport operators and commuters complied with Covid-19 regulations including the wearing of masks.