Rainbird Gardens residents are living in fear as two flats that they are living under were regarded as “not conducive for living standards” as the building structure is moving due to poor workmanship. The Department of Housing has now allocated funding to refurbish and upgrade the flats. Residents have been informed that underpinning and structural alterations will commence which will involve restoring and maintaining the existing building. However, residents are calling for the flat to be dropped down and re-built as they feel that underpinning will not solve the problem in the long-term and there is no guarantee how long the building will stand. Many of the residents are elderly with health issues and live alone and they said that they don’t want the building to collapse. Residents want to know exactly what will be done when the flats are renovated. Avin Singh, a resident, said when he is inside the lounge he can see the sun through the cracks. “I have to put up planks to support my bedroom floor as it is cracked badly. It breaks my heart to see my house collapsing like this. I am afraid of living in the flat as it can collapse at any time. The concrete is falling from the landing and water is seeping from the foundation and into the walls,” he said. Zubedia Lutchman, 70, said the title deeds were received in 2001 but this matter was reported well before that. “The building is cracking and when it rains the water seeps through the cracks in the window and through the roof. When the stairway is washed, the water comes into the house through the cracks on the stairways. The front and back door frames are cracking and wood borers are falling,” she said. A resident, Mrs M Maharaj, 68, said, “When municipality sold the flat to us, the municipality was supposed to attend to all the problems, however, they just patched up the problems and painted over it, now the cracks are becoming more pronounced and large gaps are being exposed.” Mrs S Banwari, 73, said when it rains, the water hits onto the wall and is causing the wall to become mouldy. “The dampness is affecting the furniture in the home and there is a smell of dampness in the rooms.” Nitest Singh, 24, said the building moved forward which affected the foundation. “The floors are cracking. The wall is separating from the floor and forming a huge crack. How will they patch the walls that are separating from the floor?” He said that parts of the ceiling are peeling off and the slab from the cement fell and hit his father on the stomach while he was asleep. “When it rains the water seeps through the walls and flows down to the electrical plug points. We are scared to open the windows as the putty is falling off. The windows don’t close fully as the catches are not positioned correctly and they are not in working order. We cannot open the door frames as the doors are buckling due to structural defects,” said Singh. Leader of Minorities of South Africa (MOSA), Councillor Roy Moodley, said in 2006 the residents complained to him and he did an on-site inspection. “I was appalled when I saw the latent structural defects on the flats – the cracking walls, bowing or leaning walls and sticking doors or windows as a result one can’t open doors as the frames have buckled. These are all indicators of structural movement. I wrote to the Housing Department from 2006 to date, notifying them of the situation. Thereafter I took the matter to the Provincial Housing Department. In 2011 I took the plight and concerns to former MPL, George Mari, who intervened for funding for the refurbishment and upgrading of the flats. The then Human Settlement Development issued a directive and instructions of a scoping exercise to check for structural defects,” said Moodley. Moodley explained that through the interventions of former MPL George Mari and him, R128 million was promised for Phoenix Upgrade in February 2014. “Rainbird Gardens was first on the list for refurbishment but was not upgraded or repaired. In 2014, MEC for Human Settlement, Ravi Pillay, went on an in-loco inspection with myself to Rainbird Gardens Flat, it was determined that damages in the foundation, cracks in the floor and slabs was identified by sagging floor joints due to the large distance of faulty foundation in which the ground moved and affected the entire flats’ structure. “The problems with the flats was raised with the Human Settlement Department at a public meeting in 2014. A ‘walkabout’ confirmed that the flats were not conducive for living standards. The flats were condemned. The Minister pronounced that officials from his department will visit the area and work with me to submit a technical report and confirm remedial work to be undertaken. Upon identification of the structural defects, several structural analyses were carried out on the existing building materials and structures in order to identify their components and strengths. Solutions for the structural defects had been discussed. Upon the intervention of Councillor Moodley again to Vis Moodley from the Department of Housing, funding has now been secured and refurbishment and upgrade of the flats will be taking place. “Underpinning and structural alterations will occur. The work that will be undertaken will involve restoring and maintaining the existing building,” said Moodley. Vis Govender, Clerk of Works at eThekwini Municipality said he is the official overseeing the work to be done on the Rainbird Garden flats. “The two flats have been identified. The engineers did a report and the findings were presented. According to the engineers, report, the flats are repairable. Funds have been allocated for the work to be done. It has already been given attention. I don’t blame the residents who are worried, but the municipality will engage with the councillor and will also meet with the residents before the work is undertaken. The engineers will be responsible for the work and will be held accountable should anything go wrong,” said Govender.