While looting and chaos across the community continues, the hardest areas hit by the pandemonium caused by rioters include Shallcross, Bayview, Demat, Mariannhill, Mobeni Heights, Moorton and Montford. Despite efforts from police officers, the situation is still volatile and spiraling out of control in many areas. SAPS ware outnumbered against the hundreds of rioters causing havoc at shopping malls and even small businesses and tuck shops   Residents from all around Chatsworth have once again proven though that they are a strong community when they stand together and can be seen out in full force in many areas, armed with weapons ranging from sticks, knobkerries and some even brandished firearms as they stood outside their streets in anticipation of any attacks. Vowing to take a stand against rioters who might possibly try to loot the Havenside Shopping Center, Sher Singh who is actively involved in crime in the Chatsworth area, together with a host of other residents who met to defend and protect the area and its residents, said he urged government to deploy the SANDF as soon as possible to help police in maintaining order and ensuring the safety of the residents of Chatsworth. “We cannot wait until the situation is any more out of control than it already is. If there is no action now, then unfortunately more damage is going to be done, and residents will be forced to defend and protect themselves and their families,” added Singh. In a statement issued by The South African National Defence Force (SANDF), it was confirmed that pre-deployment processes and procedures in line with a request for assistance received from the National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) to assist law enforcement agencies deployed in Gauteng and KwaZulu Natal Provinces respectively, have commenced. The deployment will begin as soon as all deployment processes are in place and is expected to help quell the unrest that has gripped both provinces in the last few days. The duration and number of soldiers will be determined based on the assessment of the situation on the ground by the relevant law enforcement agencies. “It must be emphasised that the SANDF`s deployment objective is to provide safety and a safe working environment for members of the SAPS and other law enforcement agencies whilst they carry out their Constitutionally mandated law and order duties. SANDF deployment-related information updates will follow in due course,” read the statement. The reality of the expected long term repercussions of the damage have hit those who are employed at the malls and as damage to infrastructure and shops continue, some business owners have begun to survey the aftermath of the destruction caused. This is a developing story and updates will follow