Pietermaritzburg School of Fashion student, Lindeka Duma, has been announced as the winner of the Vodacom Durban July Young Designer Award, presented by Durban Fashion Fair, based on the race-day theme “Birds of a Feather”. Duma stunned the panel of judges, made up of industry experts Leigh Schubert, Greg Wallis, Nonku Mthembu, Lara Klawikowski and Derrick Mhlongo, with a black guinea fowl-inspired body suit design overlaid with lengths of handmade plaited rope to form a colourful bodice and a show-stopping big hat, all using locally-made Shweshwe fabric. “It was quite remarkable and had such presence. The judges were unanimous in their decision,” said Wallis. The win for Duma continues the rollercoaster ride for the Pietermaritzburg-based fashion academy as fellow classmate, Vincent Orishidere, took the first runner-up place with Lindiwe Kuzwayo Academy of Fashion Design student, Zandile Mahlasela, securing the final place in the top three. Orishidere made his mark with a bold menswear design that sported vibrant burnt-orange and beige detail in its contemporary urban streetwear feel. “Again, the judges all agreed on this one as the runner-up. The finish on this outfit was exceptional, and it was a strong statement for menswear,” Wallis added. Mahlasela turned heads with her intricate ice-blue design that incorporated hundreds of hand-made triangular feathers, each individually constructed before being incorporated into the overall garment. Wallis said the colour, graduation and spacing were incredible. “The standard was exceptionally high this year, and in having to decide on the top ten and top three it was very difficult as they were so many great entries that showed good research and thought processes, but sadly couldn’t find a way into the next round,” said Wallis. The rise of Pietermaritzburg School of Fashion as a force to be reckoned with in KwaZulu-Natal fashion circles started with Leona Pillay winning the student designer competition in 2016, paving the way for the emergence of talent like Martin Steenkamp, who now lectures at the college. For winning the competition Lindeka Duma will receive R10 000 in cash with the compliments of Schweppes and Gold Circle, a R5 000 gift voucher courtesy of Gateway Theatre of Shopping, a Samsung Galaxy S9, a R3 000 Kryolan hamper, a voucher and a R1 500 SKIN by Aldytha hamper. From Hair Inc, R12 000 worth of haircare for the year and iBalance is offering body mapping valued at R1 000, plus a Myoko scalp massager. A two nights’ accommodation at a local hotel to the value of R5 000 sponsored by Bold Travel & Technology and a holiday beach-bag including cap, towel and luggage lock from World Leisure Holidays. The first runner-up, Orishidere, will receive R3 000 in cash with the compliments of Schweppes and Gold Circle, a R2 000 gift voucher courtesy of Gateway Theatre of Shopping, a R2 000 Kryolan hamper, a voucher and a R1 200 SKIN by Aldytha hamper. The second runner-up, Mahlasela, will receive R2 000 in cash with the compliments of Schweppes and Gold Circle, a R1 000 gift voucher courtesy of Gateway Theatre of Shopping, a R1 500 Kryolan hamper, a voucher and a R1 000 SKIN by Aldytha hamper. The winning college, Pietermaritzburg School of Fashion, will also receive a R30 000 grant from Gold Circle to be used to support the programmes and structures in place to develop the design students. Vodacom Durban July Young Designer Award, presented by Durban Fashion Fair. The first runner-up was Vincent Orishedere also from Pietermaritzburg School of Fashion and the second runner-up, Zandile Mahlasela, from Lindiwe Kuzwayo Academy of Fashion Design.