All in the name of justice for former President Jacob Zuma, Durban and South Africa was turned into turmoil on Sunday night and Monday morning with looters burning shops, shutting down the streets and stealing from business owners who have had nothing to do with the arrest of Zuma. Zuma handed over himself to the police on Tuesday at midnight to serve his sentence of 15 months after the Constitutional Court sentenced him for failing to appear at a corruption enquiry led by the Zondo Commission. Security officers and police were kept out all night on Sunday in the Durban CBD and surrounding areas, in an effort to protect the targeted shops which included liquor outlets, grocery stores, furniture stores and butcheries.   Confirming some of the activities in the South Beach area, Raz Ali, owner and founder of Boss-UIP Security Specialists said majority of looters are the homeless and students. “A couple of my company vehicles are damaged as these people are smashing everything. We also had shots fired at our members and the police, however, with no fatalities. At the areas which I attended to, no arrests were made, however I heard of a few arrests in the province, ” said Ali. He said looting is still continuing and can confirm that Overport was still under attack this morning.   Umbilo Saps communications officer, Captain Phumzile Makaula has also confirmed that the looting is continuing in Umbilo, Glenwood and surrounding areas and has urged resident to stay indoors for their own safety. Andreas Mathios spokesperson of Marshall security said currently in the Upper Highway area the Saps and first responders are doing all they can to keep over 300 protestors from entering Watercrest Mall. He said there have been some successful arrests. “The Hillcrest Saps and the joint effort from first responders have resulted in some arrests and stolen property being recovered,” said Mathios. Ethekwini Municipality has also released a statement in response to viral videos of Metro Police officers who also appear to be looting. Ethekwini spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said upon a preliminary investigation it was determined that the officers were not looting, but rather confiscating the goods from looters and recovering items that were abandoned by those criminal elements who were looting. “In terms of police procedure and policy, all items recovered have been recorded in an SAPS register. Hundreds of people have been detained with the evidence loaded in the vehicles. In terms of the law, the suspect, together with any evidence, must be taken to the police station and this is what has happened,” said Mayisela He called on communities to remain calm considering the civil unrest currently taking place and listen to the radio and other media to stay informed of current developments.