Iziphosonke Mlambo is a step closer to achieving his dream of studying to become a doctor, following the intervention of the Newcastle Express. Mlambo is the recipient of a scholarship in the USA but urgently needs funds to cover his travel and medical insurance expenses before August. After a plea by Mlambo for assistance was carried by the Newcastle Express recently, a pharmacy owner donated R20 000 towards the young man’s expenses. Mlambo also asked the pharmacy owner for a job to enable him to obtain medical experience and as a way to say thank you for the good Samaritan’s generosity. He is due to leave for the USA at the beginning of August to start his first semester, but still needs more funds as the total cost of the trip, including his medical insurance, comes to R55 300. When the Newcastle Express heard of Mlambo’s plight, the paper contacted the Mayor’s office to ask him to assist the young man. Mayor Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba made an appeal and a good Samaritan heeded the call by pledging to assist with R20 000. Mzwandile Khumalo, a pharmacy owner in Newcastle who initially insisted on remaining anonymous, was so impressed with Mlambo’s bright mind that he was willing to contribute towards making the future doctor’s dream come true. Khumalo says that it is a lifelong aspiration to assist youth in this area as he was also assisted by a stranger. “In my final year of varsity, I was having the worst year of my life because I had lost both of my parents and paying my tuition became difficult. I needed to find a part-time job. One day I met a stranger who completely transformed my life and in return made me promise that when I am working, I will give back to at least one student every year. It was during the school vacations, and I was working in a pharmacy and the man had a business next to where I was working. He inquired as to why I was working during the holidays when all other students had gone home for the holidays. He was moved when I told him about my experiences. He then offered me a R3000 food voucher and I would go to his shop to take anything that I needed for that month,” said Khumalo. Dr Ntuthuko Mhlaba also reassured the aspiring doctor that the municipality will seek alternative options for assisting him in his career. “We take pleasure in promoting academic success as a caring municipality. We continue to go beyond our mandate in assisting the youth in the area of Newcastle. I want other young people to know that anything is possible if you are focused and dedicated. I call upon businesses to invest in young people and empower them where they can,” said Dr Mahlaba. Mlambo says that he is looking forward to the day he departs. “I am very touched by this gesture. My heartfelt thanks to the Newcastle Municipality and the Newcastle Express reporter for going out of her way to assist me. It is very humbling and I am eternally grateful,” said Mlambo. Should anyone still wish to contribute towards Mlambo’s study assistance, please use the following banking details: Iziphosonke Mlambo Capitec Bank Account Number: 174 575 6041 Savings Account