The spotlight is shining bright on the South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal right now as the votes continue to pour in for Miss South Africa 2021 hopeful, Amanzimtoti resident Lisanne Lazarus, who made it into the top 30 of the competition. With just a few days to go till voting closes for the top 30 finalists, Lazarus is hoping to make the cut into the top 10 of the upcoming pageant. Twenty-five-year-old Lazarus, who graduated with a Dean’s Merit Award in Broadcast Journalism at the Durban University of Technology (DUT), is among 30 women who are vying for the crown and the opportunity to one day strut their stuff on an international stage, whether it be representing SA in the Miss World or Miss Universe pageant. As she prepares for the final judging for the top 10 slot, Lazarus took time out to chat to the South Coast Weekly Gazette about the simple things in life like growing up on the South Coast, her inspirations and some of her favourite getaway spots. When asked to describe herself when she’s not working and trying to take over the world, Lazarus chuckled and said she is a sunflower and a “best friend” waiting to happen. “I am a very consistent person, no matter what day you get me on or where you find me, be it at work or at home chilling in my crocs and pyjamas, I would best describe my personality as a sunflower because they are so bright and positive. So whenever you see me, you are bound to get a little bit of sunshine and positivity from me.” Lazarus admits to having two “weird” quirks, “I can watch the same series over and over again especially if it’s a comedy. Currently I have watched Modern Family more than ten to fifteen times already.  It sort of centres me in a way and gives some light-hearted content because days can be so busy and we go through so much at work and we find ourselves in so many different situations and meeting so many different types of people pulling from your energy so it really centres me. Another quirk is that when I work out, I cannot listen to different types of music. I have to listen to one song on repeat. So if my work out is three hours, I will listen to that one song for three hours because I just feel like I have momentum. If I have my playlist on shuffle and a song keeps changing, I feel like I lose my tempo.” Born under the star sign Capricorn, Lazarus said, “I would be the perfect picture that represents the symbol for this zodiac sign. I am every bit a Capricorn; I am very determined and very strong-minded. I am a girl that likes to excel at anything I do. I won’t settle for anything less but at the same time I am extremely loyal and honest. I actually have a t-shirt that says ‘Capricorn’ on it, just so that whoever meets me for the first time gets a small warning before they can start a conversation with me.” Growing up as a middle child, she exclaimed, “I have typical ‘middle child’ syndrome. I was the child that would go completely ‘left’ and I am the child that decided to take a gap year after matric and in our community or in my home this is regarded as taboo. I chose to take a gap year and find myself and do community work.” This charming young lady says she is the naughty child at home. “I guess I am the cheeky one. I am that child that isn’t afraid to stand up and speak her mind and speak her voice. Very often, my siblings would push me forward as the ‘spokesperson’ for them. Growing up as a middle child is very interesting because I feel like I am dead-centre in the middle, so much so that I pushed my way to the top so I could be their ring leader.” Priyanka Chopra Jonas is one of Lazarus’s idols and inspirations, when asked what she would do if Priyanka were to read this and contact her, she said, “Oh my gosh! I would totally freak out. I think I might faint.” To our aspiring readers, Lazarus said, “Don’t aspire to be the next Lisanne. Your authenticity makes you exactly who you are. Be completely yourself. There is only one of you and that is your super power! Own it, engage in it. Pick your head up, find your strengths and talents, harness them and turn your passion into your paper.” To help Lazarus make it to the next stage of the modelling competition, she is in need of your votes. To keep her dream of being Miss SA alive, please visit www.misssa.co.za and click to vote for number 20, voting ends on 21 July.