Government acknowledged that they were poorly prepared for an orchestrated campaign of public violence, destruction and sabotage and they admitted that they did not have the capabilities and plans in place to respond swiftly and decisively to the unprecedented violence and destruction in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng.  President Cyril Ramaphosa briefed the nation on Friday, 16 July on the security measures in place after the unrest experienced. Ramaphosa said he had visited hotspot areas of KwaMashu, Springfield, Mobeni and Umlazi in KwaZulu-Natal. “Police were faced with a difficult situation and exercised commendable restraint to prevent any loss of life or further escalation,” said Ramaphosa. He called the events of the past week “nothing less than a deliberate, coordinated and well-planned attack on our democracy” and said that government will review their preparedness and response. He said the intention was to cripple the economy, cause social instability and severely weaken – or even dislodge – the democratic state. “Using the pretext of a political grievance, those behind these acts have sought to provoke a popular insurrection. The ensuing chaos was used as a smokescreen to carry out economic sabotage. Through social media, through fake news and misinformation, they have sought to inflame racial tensions and violence,” said Ramaphosa. He said they sought to manipulate the poor and vulnerable for their own benefit but despite the widespread destruction, the attempted insurrection has failed to gain popular support and calm has been restored in most areas. Two-hundred and twelve people have lost their lives. 180 in KwaZulu-Natal and 32 in Gauteng. SAPS investigating 131 cases of murder and has opened inquest dockets in respect of 81 deaths. Over 2,550 people have been arrested in connection with the unrest, and cases are prioritised. Preliminary reports by NatJoints indicate the destruction of property and theft of goods has cost businesses, consumers and the country as a whole billions of rands. 161 malls and shopping centres, 11 warehouses, 8 factories and 161 liquor outlets and distributors has been damaged.  Ramaphosa said progress is being made to secure logistics infrastructure – The N3 freeway between eThekwini and Gauteng has been re-opened with security forces keeping supply routes open. The security forces are working with business to transport fuel, food, pharmaceuticals  and critical supplies and to enable the resumption of exports and imports. Firms involved in the supply of essential goods to share information about the availability and demand for certain goods, to promote the equitable distribution of scarce essential goods across the country. Ramaphosa said there is no shortage of food or supplies and he discouraged panic buying. SANDF members have been deployed to protect key installations and commercial sites. Ramaphosa said those responsible for planning and coordinating this violence will be brought to justice. Government will identify and act against those who lit the flame, and those who spread it. The calls for state of emergency has been rejected. Ramaphosa said the state of emergency should only be declared when all other means of stabilising the situation is inadequate. He said damage that has been done to vital economic infrastructure will take time to repair. This in turn will have an impact on the availability of food, fuel, medicine and supplies across the region. “The violence and destruction has done enormous damage to our economy leading to further job losses. It will deepen poverty and cause even greater hardship for millions of South Africans and fuel a further increase of Covid-19 infections. These events have also disrupted the Covid-19 vaccination programme in KZN and Gauteng.” Government plans to provide food parcels, cash and food vouchers to households and businesses, targeting areas affected by the looting. Cash pay points are expected to resume services from the 19 July. Solidarity Fund has established a Humanitarian Crisis Relief Fund to assist those in greatest need. Government will help rebuild businesses. Vaccination programme to be back on track. Ramaphosa called on communities to work with the police through Community Policing Forums and to desist from sharing false information. This Sunday, South Africans will join people across the world in celebrating Nelson Mandela Day.