Seven armed suspects were arrested after a high-speed car chase and a pursuit on foot along the muddy banks of the Woodstock Dam, near the Banana Bridge in the Dukaza area of Bergville.  Police were called in from Pietermaritzburg, Winterton, Bergville and Ladysmith on Tuesday morning, 6 July, after seven gunmen robbed the Upper Tugela Post Office.  They tracked down the suspects who were hiding at a local “sangoma’s” home in the Dukaza area. The suspects had apparently.  asked the sangoma for a protection prayer to prevent the police from arresting them. “The prayers did not help because now they are arrested,” said police who had cornered the seven suspects along the Woodstock Dam. The suspects retaliated by opening fire on the police officers chasing them on foot. Police then returned fire and chased the suspects into a corner, and as a way out, the suspects jumped into the Woodstock Dam. They walked in the water until it reached their necks, while police waited along the banks of the dam for them to make their way out. Adding to their misery was the fact that while in the water they lost their firearms and the money bags stolen from the post office. It did not take long for the suspects to emerge from the water and they were arrested by the police; led by Lieutenant Colone. In addition, two vehicles believed to be stolen, were recovered. Pietermaritzburg SAPS divers from the Search and Rescue unit and Newcastle Search and Rescue were called in to recover the firearms and money bags. The suspects will be charged for armed robbery and it is possible they may also be linked to two robberies which took place in Ladysmith and Winterton. On 5 July, a group of armed men entered a shop on Springfield Road in Winterton and demanded cash and cellphones from the employees. They stole cellphones and an undisclosed amount of cash before they fled in their getaway vehicle. A case of robbery was opened at the Winterton Police Station.  In another incident on the same day, security guards were travelling along the R616 when a vehicle blocked their way. The occupants of the vehicle shot at the security vehicle and as a result, three tyres burst. The suspects instructed the security guard to open the door and took his firearm. He then heard a loud explosion and he saw the suspects removing cash from the vehicle. The suspects then sped off in their getaway vehicle with an undisclosed amount of cash.  A case of robbery was opened at Ladysmith Police Station.