Amidst coronavirus third-wave gloom, internet connectivity to a disadvantaged school brings hope to learners and the community. Greenbury Secondary School became the latest school to be digitally transformed in a pilot project run by 123NET, when the company offered fibre connection at no cost to the school. With great excitement, the school went live with internet connection on Thursday, 1 July. The school principal, S R Panday, welcomed community leaders, SGB officials and 123NET officials at the “go-live” session held at the school.   Greenbury Secondary has a rich history and is the flagship of the Pinetown District due to the excellent results achieved. Panday said the school serves the educational needs of a disadvantaged community. “In 2007 the school achieved a 100% matric pass rate and since then the school has achieved between 93-95% pass rates. Connectivity will lead us closer to 100%. Against the odds, the school has worked hard and is one of the few public schools in the area that offers 60 learners Information Technology as a subject, however the school struggled without network connection. Panday explained that learners struggled with online learning. “We are ecstatic. We have been yearning for this for decades. We had a difficult time during the hard lockdown. The teachers used to go to a nearby restaurant to access free WiFi for zoom meetings with the education department and learners used to also sit at a local restaurant to access the free WiFi. “Now learners can access faster and more reliable technology to learn maths, science and language subjects,” said Panday. He said the school is made up of many indigent learners. “123NET is assisting these learners and there is no greater kindness. This will have a tremendous impact on our learners and our community. By helping our school, you are helping our community,” added Panday.  123NET has offered to install fibre at public and non-profit organisations such as schools, religious institutions, libraries, and community centres in Phoenix, Inanda, KwaMashu and Ntuzuma. Siphosethu Primary School, Natis School and Mount Edgecombe temple have already received connectivity at no cost, with Phoenix Technical School due to “go live” this week. Seelan Archary, chairperson of the African National Congress (ANC) in Ward 48, said transformation is not only about colour, but in a school environment, it is about raising the levels and moving children onto a different level. He explained that the company approached the ANC with the aim of developing the community. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic children need to do online learning. We saw it as an opportunity to skill our learners and create jobs. The company has employed locals from Phoenix, KwaMashu and surrounding areas,” said Archary.  Pravesh Manilall, infrastructure manager at 123NET who is also an ex-learner at Greenbury Secondary, said that he is happy to bring free fibre connection to Ward 48. “The pandemic has made internet connection become an essential service and I am ecstatic that I can help my community. We would appreciate patience during the process and we assure the community that we are working safely and are trying not to burst pipes. No sub-contractors are used. We do the work from scratch,” said Manilall. Kantha Dharmalingam, acting chairperson of the School Governing Body (SGB), expressed her gratitude to the company. “The impact we make today must leave footprints into the future. When parents get involved in school activities, the impact must be felt for generations to come. I know this will help the children now and in the future. The school is a beacon of hope in Ward 48 that will impact other communities. As a parent I want the future of education to soar. My grandchildren will be attending this school and the contribution I have made to this project will follow them.” Queenie Ramluckan, a parent and SGB member, said in a digital age, she thinks this is a step in the right direction. “It is what the school needs.”