At a “family meeting” held on Sunday night, 30 May, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that South Africa. will move to Adjusted Alert Level 2 from 1 June, with further restrictions in place, as a third wave approaches. The president was addressing South Africans on progress in the national effort to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. This comes against the backdrop of the provinces of Free State, Northern Cape, North West and Gauteng having already reached the threshold of a third wave of infections. “It may only be a matter of time before the country as a whole will have entered a third wave,” said Ramaphosa. The recent surge in new infections is blamed on social gatherings where people are not wearing masks, keeping social distance, ensuring adequate ventilation and limiting the number of people. Adding to the infection rates are funerals and so-called ‘after tears’ parties, as well as camps and sporting activities at schools. Ramaphosa grimly announced that we are all suffering from pandemic fatigue, and have become complacent.  “Delaying the spread of the virus is important now to allow many people to be vaccinated before the third wave reaches its peak,” said Ramaphosa. • Curfew will start at 11pm and end at 4am. • Restaurants, bars and fitness centres will close by 10pm. • Gatherings will be limited to 100 people indoors and 250 people outdoors. Where the venue is small, maximum 50% of the capacity of the venue may be used. This includes religious services, political events, social gatherings, restaurants and bars • Mandatory to wear a face mask that covers the nose and mouth, in public spaces. It is a criminal offence not to do so. • Owners and managers of public buildings, centres, shops, restaurants, taxis and buses to ensure that people wear masks, and practice social distancing. • If you test positive for Covid-19, you must self-isolate at home for 10 days from when you first developed symptoms. • If in contact with a Covid-19 infected person, you must self-quarantine for 10 days following your exposure, even if you do not show any symptoms. • Funerals restricted to 100 people. Night vigils, after-funeral gatherings and ‘after-tears’ gatherings not allowed. Ramaphosa said: “We do not yet know how severe this third wave will be or for how long it will last. The severity of this third wave will be determined by the amount of contact each of us has with other people” He urged people, especially the elderly and those with comorbidities, to cut down on contacts during this time, postpone social engagements, avoid public spaces and not travel unless absolutely necessary. The second phase of vaccination targets health workers not vaccinated in the first phase and those over 60 years of age. More than 67% of health workers have been vaccinated with Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which requires one dose. Over 480,000 people received the first dose of the Pfizer vaccine which requires two doses and second doses after 42 days of the first dose. Within the next few days, one million vulnerable South Africans will have received vaccines. The Electronic Vaccine Data System links people who have registered to a vaccination site near them. • Online registration on the SA Coronavirus website • Dial *134*832# and register via USSD • Send the word “register” via WhatsApp to 0600 123 456 • Call the national toll-free call centre on 0800 029 999. Ramaphosa re-assured the nation that sufficient vaccines have been secured, to reach all adults in the country – 40 million people. This includes 31 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccine – a single dose, which will be manufactured in South Africa. 20 million doses of Pfizer vaccine – two doses. 1.3 million Pfizer doses have been distributed and 500,000 administered. “It is up to each of us to protect ourselves, our families and our communities until we are all vaccinated. I ask you to stand together and to hold back this third wave,” said Ramaphosa.