When it comes to matters of the eyes, Rubeena Jadwat is a household name in Newcastle. This well-known optometrist has helped many with the gift of better eyesight, however, not many know the other side of her; a sporty and adventurous person with a heart of gold. The Newcastle Express had a chat with the adrenaline junkie to get to know her outside of a professional setting. Newcastle Express (NE): In a nutshell, who is Rubeena Jadwat? Rubeena Jadwat (RJ): I am a single mother of a seven-year-old little girl. An optometrist, businesswoman, dessert queen, fitness enthusiast, animal lover, water baby, beach bum, adrenaline junkie who loves the outdoors. NE: What is a typical day like in your life? RJ: I wake up at 5.30am, pray and have a cup of coffee. Then I get my daughter ready for school and make breakfast for her. After that it’s school drop-off and training time for me. I gym and/or cycle then have breakfast and get ready for work. After a while it’s school rounds again, Islamic studies, extra activities like swimming or horse riding then back home for homework, then dinner which is followed by a meeting or studying. I am also a proud Newcastle Lions lady. It is then time to pray and hit the bed. NE: You are a well-known optometrist in the town, why did you choose this field of expertise? RJ: Because I was not intelligent enough for medicine. Just joking. I love helping people so why not help with the most important sense of the human body. NE: Where did you study? RJ: University of KwaZulu-Natal, Westville Campus. NE: Being a female in the industry, what are some of the challenges that you have faced? RJ: Sometimes being a female is challenging but also, when you are seen as a young person, you are doubted as well (although I am not that young). I think that being female has not really been the challenging part and it has its advantages as well. NE: You do a lot of charity work, tell us more about that and why it is so important to you. RJ: I have found my peace in helping others. It is a feeling that nothing or anybody can ever emulate. When you look at those who are less fortunate than you are, we begin to realise how blessed yet ungrateful we are. This was instilled in me by being around my late grandfather, Younus Ameen, who everyone knows from Favourite Stationers. He was part of my organisations, including child welfare, for many years. Also, when we were in level 5 of the national lockdown last year, I teamed up with other Newcastle business people to assist with taking care of those with little or no income and those who had lost their jobs. I worked seven days a week for nearly four months providing food, clothes and in some cases shelter for up to 50 families a day. I was recognised for this as well as for all the charity work that I have done in the past by Rotary International. NE: With the recent unrest in Israel and Palestine, how have you assisted with relief efforts? RJ: I have come together with a team and we have organised a solidarity march for the people in Palestine which took place on 21 May. I am also part of a community project to raise funds for aid in Palestine. NE: What is your most favourite destination is the world that you have visited? RJ: I have so many that I like for different reasons. I love to travel. I have lived in London and Mauritius also. I think Barcelona had to be the most fun and Switzerland the most beautiful. Medina in Saudi Arabia the most peaceful and Delhi the busiest that I have ever seen. Venice is definitely the most surreal and Paris the most quaint. Mumbai is the best for shopping. NE: If you could have any person in the world as a patient to assist with glasses, who would it be and why? RJ: Whenever I watch television I always wondered who was Jacob Zuma’s optometrist because it was way too loose for him and it keeps sliding off of his nose, but I wish I could have assisted Robert Mugabe. His frame was the same through all his years of presidency. NE: Tell us something about yourself that nobody knows. RJ: I am a qualified spin-cycle instructor. I am currently studying to become a life coach. I love horse riding and have a need for speed; motorbikes and cars. NE: Besides a mask and cellphone, what do you never leave home without? RJ: My gun. NE: What is your advice to the younger generation wanting to pursue a career in optometry? RJ: Don’t do it, there is no money, no jokes. Mine is a charity organisation. Optometry is a lovely, structured profession if you love helping people. It is ideal for ladies, especially with families. NE: Favourite food? RJ: Pasta NE: Favourite book? RJ: The Alchemist by Paulo Coehlo